Nano Banana 2 and Nano Banana Pro available for everyone | Google Cloud Blog
Jump to Content
Cloud
Blog
Contact sales
Get started for free
Cloud
Blog
Solutions & technology
AI & Machine Learning
API Management
Application Development
Application Modernization
Chrome Enterprise
Compute
Containers & Kubernetes
Data Analytics
Databases
DevOps & SRE
Maps & Geospatial
Security
Security & Identity
Threat Intelligence
Infrastructure
Infrastructure Modernization
Networking
Productivity & Collaboration
SAP on Google Cloud
Storage & Data Transfer
Sustainability
Ecosystem
IT Leaders
Industries
Financial Services
Healthcare & Life Sciences
Manufacturing
Media & Entertainment
Public Sector
Retail
Supply Chain
Telecommunications
Partners
Startups & SMB
Training & Certifications
Inside Google Cloud
Google Cloud Next & Events
Google Cloud Consulting
Google Maps Platform
Google Workspace
Developers & Practitioners
Transform with Google Cloud
Contact sales
Get started for free
AI & Machine Learning
Nano Banana 2 and Nano Banana Pro are generally available, and already powering creative workflows
May 28, 2026
Stanley Tack
Product Manager, Google Cloud
Organizations are unlocking entirely new ways to use image generation and editing across their industries. To drive next-generation experiences, businesses are embedding AI directly into creative, agentic workflows. But next-gen workflows require enterprise-grade AI you can trust.
What’s new:
To help customers continue their creative journey securely, we are announcing
Nano Banana 2
(Gemini 3.1 Flash Image) and
Nano Banana Pro
(Gemini 3 Pro Image) are generally available (GA) today via
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform
. Backed by enterprise-grade infrastructure and security, these models empower you to integrate high-quality image generation and editing capabilities directly into your applications and workflows.
Alongside this milestone, we are introducing a powerful new capability in preview that significantly expands how models process multimodal inputs:
Nano Banana 2 now supports video files as an input prompt.
In addition to text, pdf or image input references, the model now utilizes deep video understanding to analyze the visual context, specific subjects, and actions within video footage to generate context-aware images, including thumbnails, rich infographics, and more. Try this feature
here
.
Note: The 1K and 2K output capabilities are generally available for both models, while the 4K capability remains in preview.
How our customers are innovating with Nano Banana models
We are continually inspired by how our partners and customers are pushing the boundaries of what is possible. By bringing these advanced image generation capabilities into their operations, organizations are innovating across their creative pipelines and empowering their users to build the next generation of visual experiences.
Enabling creative and marketing innovation
By embedding our generative image models directly into industry-leading creative tools and workflows, organizations are driving unprecedented creative innovation, scaling tailored campaigns, and fundamentally changing how brands engage with their audiences.
"Marketing and creative teams are under pressure to produce higher-quality enterprise-grade content faster, all while keeping brand integrity front and center," said Aaron Mitchell Finegold, Head of Product Marketing, Adobe Firefly Enterprise. "Nano Banana models are already powering that reality for enterprise teams working in Adobe Firefly and Adobe GenStudio, where customers can access the industry's leading AI models alongside Adobe's best-in-class creative tools. By pairing the power of advanced generative models with trusted creative and marketing workflows, organizations can move from experimentation to execution at enterprise scale.”
"Through our expanded partnership with Google, WPP received early access to Nano Banana 2 and Pro, which have been integrated into WPP Open, our agentic marketing platform. These models provide increased consistency and controls and have quickly become foundational for scaled content production systems, implemented for clients such as Verizon, L’Oreal and Unilever. Using Google’s Image models in WPP Open, teams are able to quickly optimize assets in media and adapt creative. We are thrilled to partner with Google Cloud to continually push the boundaries of creativity leveraging Generative Media.” — Elav Horwitz, Chief Innovation Officer, WPP
Transforming retail and customer interactions
Shopping platforms use our image models to offer immersive experiences like virtual try-ons and dynamic catalog enrichment, giving shoppers a highly interactive, personalized feel for products before they make a purchase.
"Nano Banana and Nano Banana Pro are a step forward in quality and speed that can help us unlock even better image generation for merchants. Merchants leverage image generation capabilities to expand their existing product photography and to generate compelling, high-fidelity social and lifestyle imagery that highlights their catalog for buyers." — Matthew Koenig, Senior Staff Product Manager, Shopify
Similarly, URBN (Urban Outfitters) uses Google's generative media capabilities to accelerate early-stage product development.
"URBN is leveraging Google’s image generation and editing capabilities to accelerate early-stage product development. In an initial pilot, the team has demonstrated the potential to significantly compress its trend-to-market pipeline” - Demo Lymberopoulos, Global Executive Director, URBN (Urban Outfitters)
Building next-generation media production workflows
Media and entertainment companies adopt these models to build next-generation applications that manage complex production pipelines, allowing studios to innovate their workflows while maintaining directorial control.
"Drawing on experience tackling some of the world's most complex AI creative challenges, Nodey was built to fix the fragmented interfaces and manual workflows that hold creators back. The integration of Nodey into OKO - our spatial intelligence platform - bridges the gap between AI experimentation and professional production. We've replaced trial-and-error prompting with a workflow anchored in a spatial environment, giving creators a way to use Google's generative models - like Nano Banana and Veo within a controllable and secure 3D pipeline, ensuring that every generated element stays perfectly aligned with the creative intent." — Ben Grossmann, CEO, Magnopus
Gemini 3 Pro Image and Veo 3.1 workflow
Get started with building enterprise-grade multimodal experiences
Whether you're building immersive retail applications, interactive commerce tools, or accelerating media production workflows, Google Cloud provides the models and tools to build the next generation of agentic creative and multimodal experiences. Access the
technical and commercial frameworks
you need to deploy Nano Banana 2 and Nano Banana Pro at enterprise-scale, fully supported by our
enterprise SLA.
Resources:
Nano Banana 2 (Gemini 3.1 Flash Image) documentation
Nano Banana Pro (Gemini 3 Pro Image) documentation
Developers can also access both models via
Gemini API
(not backed by our enterprise SLA)
Ultimate prompting guide to Nano Banana
Posted in
AI & Machine Learning
Related articles
Systems
Changing the game: Using agentic AI to secure infrastructure code
By Andrés Lagar-Cavilla • 4-minute read
Telecommunications
How Orange built FinOps accountability, and why agents are next
By Samuel Moss • 5-minute read
Security & Identity
Cloud CISO Perspectives: How Google monitors AI threats and advances AI defenses
By Sandra Joyce • 10-minute read
AI & Machine Learning
Google is a Leader in the 2026 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Enterprise AI Assistants
By Peder Ulander • 5-minute read
Footer Links
Follow us
Google Cloud
Google Cloud Products
Privacy
Terms
Cookies management controls
Help
Language
‪English‬
‪Deutsch‬
‪Français‬
‪한국어‬
‪日本語‬