Google Cloud Next
Welcome to Google Cloud Next ‘26
April 22, 2026
Thomas Kurian
CEO, Google Cloud
Try Gemini Enterprise today
The front door to AI in the workplace
Try now
Editor's note: This is an adapted transcript of Thomas’ keynote remarks for Next ‘26 where we are announcing a number of new innovations including:
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform, a comprehensive platform to build, scale, govern, and optimize agents.
Gemini Enterprise app includes a new Agent Designer, Inbox for managing agent activity, long-running agents, Skills, Projects and more.
AI Infrastructureinnovations include our 8th Generation TPUs, along with new storage and networking capabilities.
Agentic Data Cloud including a cross-cloud Lakehouse and Knowledge Catalog that allow organizations to use their data at the speed and scale required by agentic AI.
Agentic Defensethat combines Google’s Threat Intelligence and Security Operations with Wiz’s Cloud and AI Security Platform to prevent, detect, and respond to threats.
Agentic Taskforceincludes new AI capabilities across Gemini Enterprise for Customer Experience and Google Workspace.
Customer Success across our entire portfolio.
Welcome to Google Cloud Next ‘26
When we gathered at Next a year ago, we talked about how generative AI was transforming organizations around the world. Today, that future is in-production–the Agentic Enterprise is real–-and deployed at a scale the world has never before seen. At Next, we show you everything you need to make your organization an Agentic Enterprise.
This past year, we have been relentlessly focused on delivering innovation that drives your growth, introducing thousands of new capabilities across our portfolio. Our seventh-generation Ironwood TPUs and our new Axion custom processors are now generally available, providing customers with purpose-built, cost-effective infrastructure designed for the Agentic Enterprise. We launched groundbreaking new foundational models, including Gemini 3.1 Pro and our new image generation model, Nano Banana 2. And we delivered Gemini Enterprise, bringing the best of Google AI to every employee. Instead of piecing together a collection of fragmented systems, we offer a vertically optimized stack where everything is co-developed.
All of this innovation is propelling customer adoption. In fact, nearly 75% of Google Cloud customers are using our AI products to power their businesses. In addition, over the past 12 months, 330 Google Cloud customers each processed more than one trillion tokens, while 35 reached the 10-trillion-token milestone with our models. Our first-party models now process more than 16 billion tokens per minute via direct API use by our customers, up from 10 billion last quarter.
Today, organizations are choosing Google Cloud for three primary reasons:
Fully integrated AI stack: Organizations partner with us for our deep-rooted expertise and our ability to deliver first-party solutions across the entire AI stack. This isn't about offering individual services that can be cobbled together; it is about providing a comprehensive backbone for innovation. Our full stack approach across AI infrastructure; leading models like Gemini; data management capabilities; enterprise-grade foundation; developer tools and platform; and agents and applications make us unique in the market.
Secure-by-design, enterprise-ready foundation: Our customers trust Google Cloud because we provide a secure, unified platform built on Zero Trust security and planet-scale reliability. This is the same foundation that supports Google’s most demanding global services. Not only is our platform secure by default, but we also offer leading intel-driven and AI-powered cybersecurity solutions. These integrate development and security operations across hybrid and multicloud environments to effectively prevent, detect, and respond to threats up and down the entire AI stack.
Gemini Enterprise, the front door to AI for every employee and customer: Gemini Enterprise enables every customer and employee to build, use, deploy, and manage cutting-edge AI agents. Whether it's bringing together sales and service interactions to improve customer touchpoints, automating complex workflows to improve your supply chain efficiency, or enabling marketers to prototype and create campaigns in record time, Gemini Enterprise is transforming the way companies get work done.
Today at Next ‘26, we are announcing everything you need to make your organization an Agentic Enterprise – all anchored by a unified stack designed to turn intelligence into a growth engine for your business. Gemini Enterprise is now the end-to-end system for the Agentic Era—the connective tissue between your data, your people, and all of your apps and agents that transforms all of your processes into a single, intelligent flow. New innovations announced today include:
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform is our new, comprehensive platform to build, scale, govern, and optimize agents. Built on top of our leading infrastructure, and deeply integrated with our data and security capabilities, it is the foundation for the Agentic Enterprise. It brings together the best of Vertex AI with transformational new features, including Agent Studio, Agent-to-Agent Orchestration, Agent Registry, Agent Identity, Agent Gateway, Agent Observability, and much, much more. This empowers your technical teams with a comprehensive, unified platform to manage every aspect of your agents, and deliver them through the Gemini Enterprise app, the front door for AI for every employee.
Gemini Enterprise app includes new features that let every employee build with AI, including a new Agent Designer that helps build sophisticated schedule- or trigger-based agents, long-running agents to execute complex business processes, an Inbox for managing agent activity, Skills to create shortcuts for repetitive tasks, and Canvas to create and edit files without switching applications.
AI Infrastructure developments include our eighth-generation TPUs, with TPU 8t for accelerated training and TPU 8i for cost-effective, near-zero latency inference, along with storage innovations like Managed Lustre with 10 TB per second of throughput, and networking advancements like Virgo Networking for high-performance at massive scale.
Agentic Data Cloud introduces a new, AI-native architecture that allows your data to be utilized at the speed and scale required by agentic AI. We are announcing Knowledge Catalog to ground agents in trusted business context across your entire data estate, a Data Agent Kit for Gemini-powered data science authoring, and a cross-cloud, AI-native Lakehouse that gives you seamless access to all of your data, regardless of where it’s located, unleashing a borderless foundation for autonomous action.
Agentic Defense is delivered via a cybersecurity platform that combines Google’s Threat Intelligence and Security Operations with Wiz’s Cloud and AI Security Platform to detect, prevent, and respond to threats. A number of new agents for threat detection, detection engineering, remediation and more, along with Wiz’s AI Application Protection Platform (AI-APP), provide autonomous protection from code, to cloud, to runtime, across multicloud, hybrid, and AI environments.
Agentic Taskforce includesnew innovations across our Gemini Enterprise for Customer Experience solution, as well as new capabilities in Google Workspace including Workspace Intelligence, which streamlines productivity by providing a unified context layer across Workspace apps.
These are just a few of the highlights, and I’ve included much more detail below.
Gemini Enterprise: Bringing the Agentic Enterprise to life
Gemini Enterprise is seeing tremendous momentum. In Q1, we saw 40% growth in paid monthly active users quarter-over-quarter. And today we are announcing Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform, which has everything your technical teams need to build and orchestrate agents. It brings together the model selection, model building, and tuning services of Vertex AI that customers love, along with new features for agent integration, security, DevOps, orchestration, and more. It also includes the Gemini Enterpriseapp, which brings the best of Google AI to every employee, for every workflow.
Agent Platform provides first-class access to the world’s leading models, including Gemini 3.1 Pro—our most advanced model, optimized for complex workflow orchestration; Gemini 3.1 Flash Image, also known as Nano Banana 2, to generate high-fidelity user interfaces and visual assets; Lyria 3—our state-of-the-art model for generating professional-grade audio and music; and leading models from Anthropic, including Claude Opus, Sonnet and Haiku. And today we are also adding support for Anthropic’s Claude Opus 4.7.
The platform is designed around four core pillars—build, scale, govern, and optimize—that allow teams to collaborate seamlessly, and we are announcing a number of new features that allow you to:
Build agents quickly and easily by empowering your developers, business users, and everyone in-between to build and deploy agents at scale.
Agent Developer Kit (ADK) has a newgraph-based framework that allows you to define clear, reliable logic for how agents work together to solve complex problems.
Agent Studio, our new low-code interface, enables every developer to build, test, and publish agents using natural language.
Agent Registry provides a single point of control, indexing every internal agent and tool across your organization to ensure they are discoverable and governed.
Ecosystem Integrations via Agent Marketplace help instantly deploy specialized agents from partners like Atlassian, Box, Lovable, Oracle, ServiceNow, Workday, and many more—directly from Gemini Enterprise. Also, you can leverage new integrations that enable agents from partners that use a unified Agent Registry with reusable skills and managed environments to treat all protocols as first-class citizens.
Model Context Protocol allowsyou to connect our Agent Platform to any MCP Server. We are also exposing Google Cloud Services as MCP to allow you to interact seamlessly with Google Cloud from any agent.
Scale and orchestrate agents through a modular set of services that can be used together or independently to streamline the path from agent proof-of-concept to production via our highly scalable and secure container for running agents in production.
Agent-to-Agent Orchestration enables agents to seamlessly delegate tasks to one another, including support for complex, generative, and deterministic orchestration patterns. This ensures that for critical flows such as compliance, your agents can follow well-specified paths every time.
Runtime improvements deliver the immediate responsiveness your users expect with a revamped foundation that delivers sub-second "cold starts" and the ability to provision new agents in seconds. It also helps reduce the overhead of idle infrastructure.
Support for long-running agents enables your agents to sustain autonomous reasoning and manage multi-step workflows.
Secure sandboxes provide isolated environments for agents to execute model-generated code and perform computer use tasks like browser-based automation—without risk to your host systems.
Memory Bank and Memory Profiles give your agents scalable, long-term memory that replaces temporary sessions with persistent context. Agents can recall specific user details and project histories over months to deliver deeply personalized interactions.
Agent Sessions enhance developer flexibility by allowing the use of unique identifiers for precise session tracking across disparate enterprise systems.
Govern agents with our secure-by-design architecture that allows you to manage a fleet of agents with the same rigor you apply to other mission-critical systems.
Agent Identity improves the security posture of your agents by ensuring every agent receives a unique cryptographic ID and well defined authorization policies that are traceable and auditable. With Agent Identify, agents are governed through your enterprise policies, stay within assigned tasks, and ask a human for help when a situation gets too complex.
Agent Gateway providesthe air traffic control for your agent ecosystem. It understands agentic protocols (MCP, A2A, etc.) and provides centralized, real-time policy enforcement—helping to ensure every interaction between your agents and your data is secure, compliant, and scalable by design. Integrated inline protection with Model Armor safeguards your agent interactions against prompt injection, tool poisoning, and sensitive data leakage.
Agent Anomaly Detection proactively flags suspicious behavior before it impacts your business. By analyzing the intent behind agent actions, it automatically detects risks, such as tool misuse, unauthorized data access, and reasoning drift that can lead to unintended outcomes.
Agent Security dashboard gives you a full view of AI risks and compliance using the Security Command Center. It allows your teams to map relationships between agents and models, automate asset discovery, and scan for vulnerabilities in the underlying operating system and language packages.
Optimize agents using data-driven feedback loops to improve accuracy, reduce latency, and control costs, helping to ensure every AI agent performs exactly as intended.
Agent Observability delivers turnkey dashboards with automated logging and agent auditing for total oversight. Using standardized, OTel-compliant telemetry, you can now verify every agent, tool, and API handoff to ensure accountability, visualize full execution paths, and quickly diagnose reasoning loops or monitor performance metrics.
Agent Simulation lets you stress-test agents at scale against human-like synthetic interactions in a controlled environment. Generating thousands of synthetic, multi-step customer interactions, Agent Simulation rigorously evaluates logic and conversation flow.
Agent Evaluation continuously scores agent performance against live production traffic using multi-turn autoraters to detect quality degradation and anomalies in real-time.
Gemini Enterpriseapp has all the key components to let teams discover, create, share, and run AI agents in a single environment. Today we are introducingseveral new capabilities in the Gemini Enterprise app:
Agent Designer uses the same no-code agent designer experience of Agent Platform and lets employees build sophisticated schedule- or trigger-based agents using any enterprise connector. It gives you a virtual flowchart of your agent, allowing you to inspect, test, and approve workflows, ensuring total transparency for executing critical business processes.
Long-running agents aredesigned to execute complex business processes. They can work autonomously in secure cloud sandboxes, giving agents the ability to orchestrate business logic, write code to build custom tools, and complete multi-step work like reconciliation activities or sales prospect sequencing—without needing constant prompting.
Inbox in Gemini Enterprise provides a central location to monitor, guide, and help manage all of your agent activity, including your long-running agents. Notifications are intuitively categorized into actionable groups like "Needs your input," "Errors," and "Completed.”
Projects create a dedicated space where the agent’s memory is confined to the files and conversations your team adds. By connecting it to data sources like Google Drive, NotebookLM, and Google Group Chats, the agent becomes an expert on a specific topic and can provide team members daily briefings or status updates without digging through months of documents.
Skills create simple shortcuts using an “@” mention for repetitive tasks like applying brand guidelines, formatting a report, or accessing specific data.
Canvas gives our customers an interactive editor directly within Gemini Enterprise. It allows teams to easily create and edit Docs and Slides, and even export to Microsoft 365 files, within the same experience.
Agent Gallery provides access to third-party agentsfrom partners like Adobe, Atlassian, Lovable, and ServiceNow, and is adding more third-party connectors for Asana, Mailchimp, Workday, and more. These integrations enable your agents to retrieve data and execute tasks with your systems-of-record.
We have seen tremendous adoption of Gemini Enterprise to date from companies including:
Bosch is scaling innovation from power tools to automotive technology. By integrating Gemini Enterprise into AskBosch—the company’s internal platform for accelerating AI—employees across the organization are now deploying their own agents.
Capcom is using Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform and its proprietary technology to build playtesting and predictive agents that improve the gameplay experience, freeing developers for creative work.
Citi Wealth today unveiled “Citi Sky,” an always-on, AI-powered member of the Citi Wealth team that will reshape how clients in the United States access market insights, act on opportunities, and engage with their financial advisors.
EcoVadis is deploying Gemini Enterprise to increase its productivity and operational efficiency, enhance its client value, and develop new growth opportunities.
FairPrice Group is advancing its ‘Store of Tomorrow’ program with Google Cloud's Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform. It has integrated Gemini-powered AI agents into its Smart Carts to elevate the grocery shopping experience across in-store and digital touchpoints. Its employees are also using solutions built with Google Cloud's multimodal AI and generative media models to streamline store operations and accelerate thematic ad creation.
GE Appliancesis democratizing AI by putting it in the hands of the people closest to the work, with more than 800 AI agents deployed across manufacturing, logistics, and supply chain.
KPMG achieved 90% Gemini Enterprise adoption among its employees, with more than a hundred agents in the first month to better serve its global clients.
Macquarie Bank is supercharging productivity with Gemini Enterprise, reclaiming more than 100,000 hours of team members’ time.
Mars is adopting Gemini Enterprise as its primary AI operating system for its global Associates to build sophisticated AI agents that streamline marketing, R&D, and enterprise search. Gemini Enterprise empowers Mars teams to automate complex tasks across its Petcare, Snacking, and Food & Nutrition segments.
Merck is deploying a Gemini Enterprise-powered “agentic engine” to enhance decision-making across its value chain—from early discovery, through clinical development and commercialization—to improve both the probability of success and time-to-market.
NASA partnered with Google Cloud to use Gemini Enterprise agents to power flight readiness and ensure astronaut safety for Artemis II, which set the human spaceflight record for farthest distance from Earth.
PepsiCo is using Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform to help their employees move from insight to action more quickly and build new digital capabilities across its global operations.
Signal Iduna is using Gemini Enterprise to deliver insurance answers to its customers 37% faster.
SQUARE ENIX uses Agent Platform to power Gemini-based companions into Dragon Quest X Online that provide real-time gameplay support and interactive storytelling.
The American Society of Clinical Oncology is using Gemini Enterprise to deliver trusted cancer expertise to 50,000 oncology professionals worldwide.
The Home Depot is building on its 10+ year partnership with Google Cloud and using Gemini Enterprise to power a suite of AI tools – from assistants like Magic Apron to new AI voice agents for customer service – delivering 'Orange Apron' expertise to shoppers online, on the phone and in the store for a truly seamless home improvement journey.
Unilever is deploying agents built on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform throughout its organization to supercharge demand gen, build stronger partnerships, and serve its 3.7 billion consumers.
Virgin Voyages is using Gemini Enterprise to create and manage more than 1,000 specialized AI agents, including more than 50 to reduce campaign creation times by 40%. And Gemini Enterprise powers the company’s personal concierge, helping its crew members delight customers at every step of their journeys.
Vodafone is deploying Gemini Enterprise agents to proactively resolve outages and optimize infrastructure, scaling network reliability and saving millions every year.
WPP is using Gemini Enterprise to reshape creative and production, releasing an AI-led campaign every four days, at twice the speed, with 2.5x more value for clients due to its ability to quickly test assets in market and revise creative. WPP has built thousands of agents so far on Gemini.
Small and midsize businesses are seeing benefits as well—Thrive Restaurant Group is enabling its employees to explore data conversationally; the law firm Abogada Alexandra has created new ways to process contracts and prepare important case briefs more quickly; medical technology manufacturer PFM Medical has built a robust enterprise search tool that helps its teams quickly find data stored across systems, like SharePoint, Jira, and SAP, to improve decisionmaking.
The foundation for the Agentic Enterprise: AI Hypercomputer
Designed specifically for demanding AI workloads, our AI Hypercomputer is an advanced, purpose-built architecture that unites performance-optimized hardware for compute, storage, networking, open software and ML frameworks—as well as flexible consumption models—
into a single, integrated system. Our ability to co-evolve all of these components translates to leading power and performance efficiency for our customers.
At the heart of this system is the industry’s widest variety of compute options, spanning our custom Google TPUs and Axion CPUs, to the latest NVIDIA GPUs, giving customers the ultimate flexibility to pick the right architecture for the job without compromise.
Today we are announcing innovations at every layer of the AI Hypercomputer:
We offer the widest array of compute processors to customers, and our portfolio is expanding today to include:
TPU 8t, optimized for training, uses breakthrough Inter-Chip Interconnect (ICI) technology to scale up to 9,600 TPUs and 2 PB of shared, high-bandwidth memory in a single superpod. It achieves 3x the processing power of Ironwood and delivers up to 2x more performance/Watt.
TPU 8i, optimized for inference, uses our new Boardfly topology to directly connect 1,152 TPUs in a single pod. It features 3x more on-chip SRAM compared to previous versions to host larger KV caches entirely on-silicon and integrates a specialized Collectives Acceleration Engine. Taken together, TPU 8i delivers 80% better performance per dollar for inference than the prior generation, enabling millions of concurrent agents to run cost-effectively.
NVIDIA GPUs are a core part of our AI accelerator portfolio. We will be among the first to offer NVIDIA Vera Rubin NVL72, in addition to the Blackwell- and Hopper-based instances already available.
Google Cloud Axion includes our N4A Axion instances—launched in January—which deliver 100% better price-performance than comparable x86 instances, ensuring sustained, efficient operation for agents.
Network-optimized Compute is expanding with new C4N and M4N machine series, perfectly optimized for high-volume agent communication, network-heavy Telco 5G core, and enterprise databases. C4N instances can deliver an almost 4x increase in network bandwidth-per-vCPU over standard C4 instances.
New innovations in Storage include improvements in Managed Lustre, which now delivers 10 TB per second of throughput to A5X or TPU 8t over RDMA, supercharging training. In Rapid Storage, we’ve made significant performance improvements—going from 6 TB/sec to 15 TB/sec—to speed up AI training and inference workloads. And we are introducing Smart Storage, which applies semantic meaning to unstructured data, providing the foundation for our Enterprise Knowledge Graph.
New capabilities in Networkinginclude the Virgo Network, our new, purpose-built, AI-optimized network that connects either NVIDIA Vera Rubin NVL72 systems or TPU 8t superpods into massive supercomputers with hundreds of thousands of accelerators, supercharging distributed training of the world's most capable frontier models.
We are also announcing new features in our Compute Services, including the expansion of our OSS Frameworks and Inference Engines to include native support for Pytorch for TPUs, as well as optimized vLLM support across GPUs and TPUs. And Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) has new capabilities that deliver dramatically faster cold starts and scale-out for AI inference workloads, and new agent sandboxes that are capable of deploying 300 sandboxes per second, per cluster, with sub-second time to first instruction.
In this agentic era, you can’t have humans manually filing tickets to manage capacity or troubleshoot configurations; you need a cloud that drives itself. We’ve used the Model Context Protocol (MCP) to turn every Google Cloud service into a tool that agents can orchestrate directly, enabling them to troubleshoot our own infrastructure using decades of our own telemetry. And by integrating Gemini reasoning into our telemetry libraries, the system now performs autonomous root-cause analysis—identifying misconfigurations and remediations to fix before a human even realizes there’s a problem.
And of course, Google uses this infrastructure to power our own models, including Gemini and our portfolio of media generation models—driving new levels of efficiency, creativity, and customer engagement. By designing the model and the machine in tandem, we eliminate the constraints of fragmented stacks to deliver extreme scale and efficiency, as well as leading price-performance. In addition, this ensures that breakthroughs achieved through our research are immediately ready for the rigors of production for our customers.
Our industry leading AI Infrastructure serves a number of customers:
Leading AI labs like Thinking Machine Labs use our NVIDIA-based GPU infrastructure and are seeing >2x faster training times on its frontier models.
Capital markets firm Citadel Securities built a scalable, cloud-based quantitative research environment that uses Cloud TPUs to run workloads faster and at a lower cost.
Enterprises like Boston Dynamics are training vision-language models to safely deploy robots across a wide variety of industrial applications.
Government agencies, including all seventeen U.S. Department of Energy National Labs use the “AI co-scientist” built on TPUs as a research partner, generating and validating new hypotheses to accelerate scientific discovery.
Utilities like Axia Energy, Brazil’s largest power company, uses TPUs to forecast severe storms so it can proactively plan and execute preventative measures before storms hit—significantly reducing service interruptions year-over-year.
The Agentic Data Cloud: A new data architecture built for the speed and scale of agentic AI
The Agentic Enterprise demands a fundamental shift in data architecture. For a decade, "systems of intelligence" functioned as reactive data archives built for human scale. Today, we are moving to “systems of action” built for proactive, trusted agents that run at agent scale. The Agentic Data Cloud delivers an AI-native architecture—a unified foundation that frees your data from the silos of the last generation—allowing agents to perceive, reason, and act on your behalf in real-time.
New capabilities in the Agentic Data Cloud we are announcing today include:
Cross-Cloud Lakehouse, standardized on Apache Iceberg, is our Lakehouse that enables you to leave your data in AWS or Azure (coming later this year) while querying it instantly—without the friction of vendor lock-in or the cost of data movement. We provide zero-copy access to applications, operating systems, and AI platforms, such as Databricks, Palantir, Salesforce Data360, SAP, ServiceNow, Snowflake, Workday, and more.
Lightning Engine for Apache Spark delivers a real-time, serverless engine that is up to 4.5x faster than open-source alternatives and offers up to 2x better price-performance over the leading competitor for large datasets.
Data Agent Kit delivers a Gemini-powered data science authoring experience across your IDEs, Notebooks, and Agentic Terminals. It enables data practitioners with intent-driven development in Python, Spark, and SQL—simply state your business goal, and the Data Agent Kit handles the rest.
Knowledge Catalog constructs a unified, dynamic context graph of your entire business enabling you to ground agents in all of your business data and semantics. With Smart Storage and the Object Context API, files in Google Cloud Storage are instantly tagged and enriched with metadata before an agent touches them. Then our Knowledge Engine uses Gemini to autonomously tag, define logic and instantly map complex relationships across your entire enterprise, providing the semantic definition your agents have been missing.
Deep Research Agent for enterprise insight is an autonomous agent that combines research and analytical skills. While Deep Research in Gemini Enterprise already works with your documents and SaaS systems to synthesize your business data, it now connects to data platforms like BigQuery, ensuring a full picture of all your structured and unstructured data. Now it can answer complex business questions like “what is the root cause of my supply chain disruption?” or "can you perform a financial audit on this region?” and include citations and precision that previously required weeks of manual effort.
Customers are already using our Agentic Data Cloud today:
Flipkart, Lowe’s, and Meesho are accelerating their Apache Spark workloads with Lightning Engine.
American Express is moving a core on-premise warehouse and hundreds of production applications to BigQuery to enable trusted agentic commerce at scale.
Bayer Crop Science researchers are eliminating manual data management and analytics with data science agents, freeing them to focus on pioneering agricultural innovations for a sustainable, productive future.
Macquarie Bank unified its data on BigQuery and Spanner to protect and personalize banking for customers.
Vodafone built a self-healing diagnostic system to proactively resolve outages expected to save €100 million by 2030.
Protecting the Agentic Enterprise: Security built for the AI era
Companies across industries face a compounding security challenge. As they expand into complex hybrid and multicloud environments, their attack surface is growing. At the same time, organizations are rapidly deploying AI agents—feeding them sensitive, proprietary data to streamline core business operations. Meanwhile, adversaries are weaponizing AI to launch faster, more sophisticated attacks directly targeting these new enterprise models and the critical data powering them.
To combat this, human analysts need AI on their side. We offer an AI-powered cybersecurity platform that combines Google’s Threat Intelligence and Security Operations with Wiz’s Cloud and AI Security Platform to prevent, detect, and respond to threats across all environments. Customers are already benefiting from our Triage and Investigation Agent, which has processed more than 5 million alerts to date, reducing a typical 30-minute manual analysis to 60 seconds.
Today at Next we are announcing a number of new solutions for agentic defense:
Agentic SecOps: Supercharging agentic defense with threat intelligence
Dark Web Intelligence builds a nuanced profile of your organization using the newest Gemini models, based on Google Threat Intelligence Group’s dark web expertise. Internal tests show it can analyze millions of daily external events with 98% accuracy to help elevate only the threats that truly matter to your organization.
Threat Hunting Agent uses Google’s massive threat intelligence knowledge to allow teams to proactively hunt for novel attack patterns and adversary behaviors that bypass traditional defenses.
Detection Engineering Agent generates persistent detection rules for threat scenarios, transforming detection creation from a manual craft into an automated process.
Wiz: Protecting AI and cloud apps across any infrastructure
Wiz AI Application Protection Platform (AI-APP) secures every layer of AI applications—infrastructure, data, access, models, agents, and applications—from code to runtime, across every environment where you build. AI-APP brings together visibility, risk analysis, and runtime protection into a single, graph-powered platform that helps teams understand and secure AI systems as they operate. Today, we’re taking our commitment further. Wiz now supports Databricks, as well as new agent studios like AWS Agentcore, Gemini Enterprise Agent Builder, Microsoft Azure Copilot Studio, and Salesforce Agentforce so customers gain protection however their teams choose to build. Wiz now also connects to the outer layer of the cloud, including Apigee, Cloudflare, Vercel, and others to add more context on the external attack surface.
Wiz Red Agent acts like a sophisticated security researcher, but at AI speed and scale. It can reason about application behavior, adapt its approach in real time, and validate exploitable risks across your web applications and APIs, empowering you to stay one step ahead of attackers.
Wiz Blue Agent gathers evidence across cloud telemetry, runtime signals, and identity context to investigate a threat and assess its potential severity, providing its full investigation logic so you can resolve threats quickly.
Wiz Green Agent acts as a built-in investigation and remediation engine, continuously analyzing your highest-risk issues. Like a seasoned security engineer, it synthesizes context from across Wiz—including the Security Graph, code-to-cloud relationships, identity ownership, and historical remediation patterns—to identify the true root cause of a risk and the safest, most effective resolution. Teams get environment-specific, step-by-step remediation guidance so fixes are durable.
Wiz Agentic Workflows introduces a new hub for orchestrating cloud and AI security in Wiz. It brings together the rich context of Wiz, analysis from Wiz AI agents, and a customizable drag-and-drop interface. Together, this enables security teams to define how work gets done, from when and how agents act to where human input is required.
In addition, we are introducing Google Cloud Fraud Defense, a comprehensive platform designed to discern the legitimacy and authorization of bots, humans, and agents. Fraud Defense is the evolution of reCAPTCHA, and provides the intelligence that businesses need to trust their digital interactions and commerce.
Customers across industries and geographies are using Google Cloud Security to strengthen their security posture:
CME Group, the world's leading and most diverse derivatives marketplace, depends on a unified security stack of Google SecOps, Security Command Center, and Mandiant to protect against novel threats.
Colgate-Palmolive decreased external exposure issues by 44% and now sustains long periods of zero critical risks with Wiz.
Deloitteincreased analyst efficiency by more than 60% using Gemini in Security Operations. The firm accelerated threat hunts across billions of logs from hours to seconds—and generating detection rules now takes moments rather than weeks.
Lloyds Banking Groupaccomplished full SOC transformation in under eight months, moving to a continuous detection and response engineering model, shifting more than 40% of engineering capacity towards proactive threat hunting, enabling human expertise to move up the value chain.
The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power is securing critical infrastructure ahead of the LA28 Games using Google security solutions.
Priceline uses Wiz to ensure all acquisitions comply with its security framework, regardless of cloud environment.
Redis uses Wiz Defend to achieve consistent threat detection, while the Blue Agent helps analysts contextualize alerts without the need for manual investigation.
Shell improved its ability to detect urgent and novel security vulnerabilities with Wiz. What used to take anywhere from three days to two weeks is now managed in near-real-time.
Singapore’s CSIT enables proactive defense against advanced digital threats by translating insights into action with Google Cloud security technologies.
Sutherlandcontained potential intrusions in under 24 hours and transitioned from reactive defense to proactive threat hunting using Google Cloud security.
University of California Riversidecut incident response times by 90% with Google Cloud security–slashing detection-to-resolution from more than 20 minutes to under two minutes.
Most enterprises run on a combination of clouds or hybrid environments, and we are committed to protecting our customers across all of their environments. Bringing Wiz’s cloud context together with Google’s threat intelligence, we are able to uniquely give you a unified view of every AI asset from code to cloud—ensuring governance without slowing down innovation.
The Agentic Taskforce: Redefining engagement and productivity
At Google Cloud, we are solving the two challenges facing the modern enterprise: First, delivering a frictionless journey for your customers; and second, helping your employees be more effective. Gemini Enterprise not only offers a unified system of agents that can orchestrate and automate entire business processes, but also it seamlessly integrates with all of your existing apps and investments.
Earlier this year at NRF, we launchedGemini Enterprise for Customer Experience, a platform for retailers that brings together fragmented search, commerce and service interactions into one personalized, intelligent customer journey. It includes:
Shopping and Food Ordering agents that handle everything—from discovery to checkout—entirely through natural language. With the Food Ordering Agent, Papa John’s is building a hyper-personalized system that remembers customer preferences  to get dinner to your door faster.
Customer Support agents that provide a frictionless journey for customers—from search to service—turning every interaction into a revenue opportunity.
Conversational Insights delivers an analytics platform that identifies call drivers and performs automated quality evaluation on 100% of interactions.
Agent Assist augments human agents in real-time by providing contextual knowledge, smart replies, and automated call summarization. Best Buy is guiding shoppers through complex tech specs, issue resolution, and appointment scheduling—autonomously.
Omnichannel Gateway provides a single entry point for WhatsApp, SMS, RCS, and Voice with consistent cross-channel history.
Universal Consumer Context tracks interactions across channels and turns every consumer interaction into a continuation of a single, long running conversation.
Human-Like Voice capabilities Low-latency, audio stream-in and stream-out preserves human tone and multilingual switching for highly natural voice interactions.
In India, retail giant Reliance is transforming retail for millions of its customers with a Shopping Agent. Customers simply type “Plan a birthday party,” and the agent guides their journeys and assembles their carts, driving greater revenue per session. Gemini-powered catalog enrichment supports this, analyzing millions of images in minutes instead of months.
Further empowering your workforce with AI is Google Workspace—including popular apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, and Meet. Workspace’s AI features have improved employee collaboration and productivity for more than a decade at companies like Colgate-Palmolive, Compass Real Estate, Korean Airlines, and Natura.
Moving beyond a traditional suite of apps, today we are announcing Workspace Intelligence—a semantic unifying layer that breaks down information and context silos for you and your agents. By leveraging the deep semantic context of your digital workflows that span across meeting notes, emails, files, and more, it creates an intelligence layer grounded in your unique context that can fundamentally change the way you work.
Today we are showcasing how Workspace Intelligence extends across your apps, bringing agentic power to every surface:
AI Inbox and AI Overviews in Gmail uses Gemini to create a personal, proactive inbox assistant.
Ask Gemini in Google Chat allows you to instantly synthesize information, surface insights, and query projects from across Workspace directly from your Chat window. It also lets you take immediate action—such as scheduling a meeting on your calendar or creating a Google Doc to develop a pre-meeting brief—turning your conversations into momentum without having to switch tabs.
Reimagined content creation in Docs, Sheets, and Slides instantly synthesizes information from Drive, Gmail, and the web to transform ideas into professionally formatted drafts in Docs that mimic your exact voice and style. In Docs, Gemini now acts as a collaborative partner that can generate fully formatted first drafts by synthesizing your specific emails, chats, files, and the web. In Sheets, you can transform raw data into interactive dashboards, or instantly generate custom project trackers, plans, and organizational structures, all from a simple prompt. And in Slides, your ideas come to life with an agentic builder that creates and edits full, on-brand presentation decks with a single prompt.
Google Drive Projects is a new, intelligent space that instantly organizes your team's files and emails to manage workflows, generate content, and deliver specific answers based on rich project context. In addition to newly added AI Overviews and Ask Gemini, Projects is another way we’re transforming Drive from a storage tool into an active collaborator to provide insights about your data.
Workspace agent in Gemini Enterprise can execute complex, multi-step tasks across Google Workspace apps without having to leave Gemini Enterprise.
To help organizations immediately unlock this new era of productivity, we are also introducing Rapid Enterprise Migration. Now migrating your entire organization—including complex legal and finance teams—from Microsoft 365 to Google Workspace is up to five times faster.
Our commitment to openness and our ecosystem
At Google Cloud, we understand that openness is a requirement for our customers, and we remain committed to choice at every layer of the stack. Not only does this allow you to ensure your new investments in AI are interoperable with existing investments, but it also gives you the freedom to choose what is best for your business—whether it comes from us or one of our many partners. With optionality at every layer, you can choose from a wide selection of models, AI accelerators, and open ML software, as well as agents and applications from ISVs, and implementation services from leading systems integrators.
At Next, we’re highlighting new ways that our partners can help you access Google Cloud AI across more of your applications and interfaces, including:
Gemini momentum with ISVs: Leading companies like Salesforce, SAP, ServiceNow, Workday, and hundreds more are deeply integrating Gemini into their products, bringing more AI-powered features and agents to their users.
More enterprise-grade agents from partners: Already, thousands of agents built by our partners are available in Google Cloud Marketplace. Now, you can access select agents directly through Gemini Enterprise, making it easier for you to find the right agent for your team’s needs from partners like Accenture, Adobe, Atlassian, Deloitte, Lovable, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Replit, S&P Global, Salesforce, ServiceNow and Workday.
Additional expertise and forward deployed engineers (FDEs) through systems integrators: Today, every major systems integrator offers customers access to highly skilled teams of consultants and AI implementation experts—together, totalling more than 330,000 consultants trained on Google Cloud AI technologies around the world. We are now sending teams of Google Cloud forward-deployed engineers to partner closely with teams from Accenture, Capgemini, Cognizant, Deloitte, HCLTech, PwC and TCS, to accelerate customers’ agentic journeys. We’ll also begin rolling out a new early model access program for a select group of partners, including Accenture, BCG, Deloitte and McKinsey, who will be able to preview and begin building with pre-release versions of upcoming Google Deepmind models.
And for our customers in regulated industries like financial services and healthcare, In fact, at Next, we are announcing support for the latest Gemini 3 models in both air-gapped and connected environments.
Customer success across every industry
As the cloud market evolves in the agentic era, we are seeing the transformative impact our products are having with customers across every industry. At Next this year, we will be sharing the stories of more than 500 organizations from around the world using our AI and agentic tools, including:
Financial Services:Citadel Securities, Citi Wealth, CME Group, DBS, Macquarie Bank,Revolut, Starling Bank
Retail, Restaurants & Consumer Goods: Alpura, Authentic Brands Group, Cia Hering, Colgate, Fairprice, Kingfisher, Kroger, Lowe’s, Macy’s, Mars, Papa Johns, PepsiCo, The Home Depot, Ulta, Unilever, Woolworths
Media & Entertainment and Games:10six Games, Antstream Arcade, Avid, CANAL+, Dreamlands, ElevenLabs, Formula E, MLB,Parallel, Quick Play and Gray Media
Telecommunications: Amdocs, Deutsche Telekom, Liberty Global,Nokia, Vodafone
Travel & Hospitality:Latam Airlines, Virgin Voyages
Security & Tech: Atlassian, Bending Spoons, TCS
Healthcare & Life Sciences:Merck, CVS Health, Humana, Quest Diagnostics, Waystar
Manufacturing: Bosch, EcoVadis, GE Appliances, Tata Steel
Governments:, German Armed Forces, Maryland, NATO, UK Department for Transport,U.S. Department of Energy, U.S. Department of Transportation, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, SENAI Brazil
ISVs:Lovable, Oracle, Salesforce, SAP,  ServiceNow,UKG, Workday
Systems Integrators: Accenture, BCG, Capgemini, Cognizant, Deloitte, HCLTech, IBM, Infosys, Kyndryl, KPMG, McKinsey, PwC, TCS
Startups: Emergent AI, Jusbrasil, Notion, Parallel Web Systems, Reve, Safe Superintelligence, Thinking Machines Lab, Unico
SMBs: Apex Leaders, B3Networks, Constructora Las Galias, OneUnited Bank, Papel Semente, Premji Invest, Thrive Restaurant Group
And many, many more showcased on our website.
Your Agentic Enterprise
Transformation to an Agentic Enterprise is the future of every organization, and Google Cloud uniquely offers a unified system that can take you there. Our AI Hypercomputer provides scalable foundation, our Agentic Data Cloud provides the context, our Agentic Defense provides the protection, our agents deliver new levels of engagement and productivity, and our Agent Platform provides the orchestration.
And while technology can provide transformational power, you must still provide the vision: With all this innovation at your fingertips, what will your Agentic Enterprise build?
Posted in
Google Cloud Next
Related articles
Data Analytics
What’s new in data agents: Supercharging your AI workflows
By Sean Rhee • 7-minute read
Data Analytics
What we announced in streaming AI at Next ‘26
By Jagdeep Singh • 6-minute read
Databases
Meet the latest Database Center, now with Gemini-powered fleet intelligence
By Kiran Shenoy • 5-minute read
Databases
New Bigtable in-memory tier for sub-millisecond read latency
By Anton Gething • 6-minute read
Footer Links
Follow us
Google Cloud
Google Cloud Products
Privacy
Terms
Cookies management controls
Help
Language‪English‬‪Deutsch‬‪Français‬‪한국어‬‪日本語‬