November Workspace Drop: Nano Banana Pro in Slides, Vids, and the Gemini app, plus AI to make meetings more impactful | Google Workspace Blog
Jump to Content
Workspace
Blog
Contact sales
Get started
Workspace
Blog
Topics
Product Announcements
AI and Machine Learning
Productivity and Collaboration
Identity and Security
Future of Work
Hybrid Work
Customer Stories
Developers and Practitioners
Partners
Events
Public Sector
Product News
Gmail
Meet
Chat
Drive
Docs
Sheets
Vids
Contact sales
Get started
Product Announcements
November Workspace Drop:
Nano Banana Pro in Slides, Vids, and the Gemini app, plus AI to make meetings more impactful
November 26, 2025
The Google Workspace Team
Try Google Workspace at No Cost
Get a business email, all the storage you need, video conferencing, and more.
SIGN UP
In November’s Workspace Drop, we’re delivering powerful new AI features built with Gemini 3, plus new AI features to help make meetings more effective.
Here’s what’s new:
Professional-grade image creation:
Introducing Nano Banana Pro in Slides, Vids, the Gemini app, and NotebookLM.
Tackle your most ambitious projects:
Gemini 3 Pro in the Gemini app to reason across text, images, audio, and video.
Uplevel your team collaboration:
New Gemini features to improve meeting workflow — before, during, and after.
Take your work on the go:
AI-powered audio overviews are now available for PDFs in Google Drive.
Create high quality videos:
Use new ingredients-to-video capabilities in Vids.
Professional-grade image creation: Introducing Nano Banana Pro in Slides, Vids, Gemini app, and NotebookLM
We’re excited to introduce
Nano Banana Pro
(Gemini 3 Pro Image)
, our new state-of-the-art image generation and editing model, giving more complex and sophisticated outputs and advanced, precise control. Built on Gemini 3 Pro, Nano Banana Pro allows you to blend photos for high-fidelity mockups, design collateral with sharp and accurately placed text, or generate data-rich infographics with a polished look.
Introducing Nano Banana Pro.
With Nano Banana Pro in Slides, you can now create stunning infographics, images, and even complete slides — no matter your design skills. In just a click,
Beautify this slide
turns your ideas into a compelling visual that maintains the fidelity of your text while modeling the look and feel of the overall deck. For more control, use the updated
Help me visualize
sidebar to enter more detailed prompts and select from specific output styles (slide, image, infographic), then refine your results with built-in advanced image editing capabilities. The new infographic option generates eye-catching visualizations of your content by merging state-of-the-art text rendering and Gemini 3 Pro’s advanced reasoning.
Beautify your slides with Nano Banana Pro in Slides.
Tackle your most ambitious projects: Gemini 3 Pro in the Gemini app to reasoning across text, images, audio and video
We’re bringing our most intelligent model yet,
Gemini 3 Pro
, to the Gemini app for Workspace customers. This update sets a new bar for AI model performance and delivers a more powerful and helpful experience, with responses that are clearer and easier to read. Gemini 3 Pro has improved reasoning capabilities across text, images, and charts compared to previous models, helping you analyze data or brainstorm creative ideas.
Introducing Gemini 3 Pro.
Uplevel your team collaboration: New Gemini features to improve meeting workflow – before, during, and after.
We’re rolling out powerful new Gemini features across Gmail, Meet, and Chat to make your meetings smoother, from beginning to end.
Help me schedule
in Gmail will suggest meeting times based on your Google Calendar and the context of the email, in a single step, right from your inbox.
"Help me schedule" in Gmail.
During the meeting,
Ask Gemini in Meet
for real-time help. Gemini can catch you up on what you missed, share key takeaways, or recap a discussion detail.
Gemini in Meet providing a summary of the meeting up to this point.
Continuous meeting chat
brings in-meeting messages and shared artifacts into a persistent Google Chat conversation, so teams can move from planning into action without missing a beat.
Stay connected after the meeting ends with continuous meeting chat.
Take your work on the go: AI-powered audio overviews for PDFs in Google Drive
You can now use Gemini in Google Drive to convert long, text-heavy
PDFs into a conversational, podcast-style audio
summary. Whether you’re commuting, working out, or doing chores, you can listen to summaries from anywhere you can access your Drive files. Once an audio overview is generated on a desktop, it will automatically be saved to a new “Audio overviews” folder in your Drive, where you can then access it from any mobile or desktop device.
Boost efficiency, improve accessibility, and enhance preparation with audio overviews for PDFs in Google Drive.
Create high quality videos: Use new ingredients-to-video capabilities in Vids
The new ingredients-to-video capability of Veo 3.1 in Vids now lets you
generate an 8-second clip
using up to three different images and a prompt. Whether you’re creating a brand promotion, training video, or employee onboarding video, you can now create clips with consistent subjects, characters, and objects.
Create video clips from images with Veo 3.1 in Vids.
Get started today
All these updates are rolling out to Google Workspace customers now. You can take advantage of these updates today, either with a
no-cost trial
or included with any of our
business plans
.
We’ll be taking a break from Workspace Drops for December, and we look forward to sharing more new features from the Google Workspace team in January 2026.
Posted in
Product Announcements
AI and Machine Learning
Related articles
Product Announcements
Teach Gemini your team’s know-hows with skills in Google Workspace
By Ali Douvre • 3-minute read
Product Announcements
Turn your data into action: 6 mini apps you can create with Sheets canvas
By Eric Birnbaum • 4-minute read
Product Announcements
Less switching, more flow: 5 new agentic capabilities across Google Workspace apps
By Jill Daley • 5-minute read
Product Announcements
Google Pics brings pro-level AI image creation and editing to Google Workspace
By Meg Whittenberger • 2-minute read
Footer Links
Follow us
Included applications
Included applications
Gmail
Meet
Chat
Calendar
Drive
Docs
Sheets
Slides
Forms
Sites
Keep
Apps Script
Security and management
Security and management
Admin
Endpoint
Vault
Work Insights
Solutions
Solutions
New Business
Small Business
Enterprise
Retail
Manufacturing
Professional Services
Technology
Healthcare
Government
Education
Nonprofits
Artificial Intelligence
Pricing
Pricing
Compare pricing plans
Add-ons
Add-ons
Gemini for Workspace
Meet hardware
Google Voice
AppSheet
Resources
Resources
Working remotely
Security
Customer Stories
FAQs
Partners
Marketplace
Integrations
Training & Certification
Refer Google Workspace
Learning and support
Learning and support
Admin Help
Setup and Deployment Center
Learning Center for Users
Forums for Admins
Google Workspace Dashboard
What's New in Google Workspace
Find a Google Workspace Partner
Join the community of IT Admins
Press
More from Google
More from Google
Google Cloud
Google Domains
Chrome Enterprise
Google Business Solutions
Google Ads
Business Messages
Join User Studies
About Google
Google Products
Privacy
Terms
Cookies management controls
Language
‪English‬
‪Deutsch‬
‪Français‬
‪한국어‬
‪日本語‬