5 ways businesses can use Nano Banana Pro and Veo 3.1 for visual content | Google Workspace Blog
Jump to Content
Workspace
Blog
Contact sales
Get started
Workspace
Blog
Topics
Product Announcements
AI and Machine Learning
Productivity and Collaboration
Identity and Security
Future of Work
Hybrid Work
Customer Stories
Developers and Practitioners
Partners
Events
Public Sector
Product News
Gmail
Meet
Chat
Drive
Docs
Sheets
Vids
Contact sales
Get started
AI and Machine Learning
Beyond the hype: 5 practical ways to use AI-powered visual content at work
December 10, 2025
Vishnu Sivaji
Senior Director, Product Management, Google Workspace
Try Google Workspace at No Cost
Get a business email, all the storage you need, video conferencing, and more.
SIGN UP
Generative AI has made it easier and faster than ever to create high quality visual content. This can make your marketing campaigns, customer presentations, or internal trainings really standout, but knowing where to start can feel daunting. For businesses, the real challenge isn't just generating an image or video, it's generating one that is accurate, relevant, and actually useful to your work.
That’s why we’ve recently integrated
Nano Banana Pro
(Gemini 3 Pro Image) and
Veo 3.1
, Google’s state-of-the-art image and video generation models, directly in Google Workspace* to help you uplevel your creative game. And because Nano Banana Pro is connected to Google Search’s vast knowledge base, it understands the real world — meaning you can generate visuals that are grounded in reality, not just imagination.
Here are five practical ways you can use AI-generated images and video to drive real business results.
1. Create more visual presentations
We all know what good slide design looks like when we see it, but creating it hasn’t always been easy. This is where AI can help. The next time you’re creating a pitch or presentation in Google Slides, use Nano Banana Pro to enhance or add custom, relevant elements into any image. Have a slide that’s looking flat? With one click, the new
Beautify this slide
feature transforms your current slide into a compelling visual with accurate, legible text while modeling the look and feel of the overall deck.
You can also now generate detailed, professional infographics directly in Slides, all with just a prompt. Nano Banana Pro is connected to Google Search’s vast knowledge base, meaning it does an incredible job at representing real-world objects and places, all while taking into account the details you describe. Consider turning your company, product, or customer satisfaction data into high-quality infographics that are easier for your customers or prospects to digest. Try it at
slides.new
.
Beautify your slides with Nano Banana Pro in Slides, and create visuals such as infographics.
2. Create dynamic product shots
High quality product shots used to require a physical photoshoot. With Nano Banana Pro, you can now quickly create high-quality product shots by uploading a photo of your product and placing it in different situations just by describing it. Whether you need a fresh look for a web page, online ad, or catalog, you can instantly create professional-grade visuals that put your product in the perfect context, saving you time and resources while elevating your brand consistency. Try it at
gemini.google.com
.
Create images of your products using Nano Banana Pro, such as mockups for placement of a new sofa.
Note: the images are created without a watermark, which is available to Google AI Ultra for Business subscribers.
3. Scale multi-format campaigns in minutes
A successful campaign needs to resonate with your audience across multiple channels, but adapting content for each platform can be time consuming. Now, you can quickly adjust assets for different campaigns, allowing you to resize them for different social media platforms or other digital channels. You can even translate text on your assets into new languages to scale your assets globally. Start by uploading an image, or generating a central, “hero image” with high-quality text overlay using Nano Banana Pro in the Gemini app. To find what resonates with your audience, consider creating multiple variations to A/B test by slightly tweaking your prompts. Try it at
gemini.google.com
.
Quickly edit and resize photos using Nano Banana Pro, adding background, text, or resizing images for a new chair.
4. Generate animated videos from your imagery
To make your presentations even stronger, amp up your visual storytelling, and build engaging content, you can now generate videos from images using Veo in Google Vids or the Gemini app.
Simply select up to three of your favorite images — either existing ones, or perhaps ones you’ve generated using AI — write a prompt on how you want the images to come together (or add motion to a single image), and Veo will take care of the rest. The result? A short, high-quality video that blends your images together and is the perfect asset for social media, presentations, or your website. Try it at
vids.new
.
Generate animated videos using Veo 3.1, including a mock video for a sofa.
5. Uplevel your internal trainings with video storytelling
Internal training materials or presentations can often be dense and unengaging, making it hard to capture your audience’s attention. With Google Vids, you can easily transform documents or presentations into dynamic video-based training that sticks. While Vids offers a rich library of stock content, you can now make your training feel more on-brand and relevant by generating your own visuals. With the power of Veo in Vids, you can generate short, specific video clips that visualize complex concepts instantly. This isn't just about making things look pretty; it's about using visual storytelling to ensure your team actually understands and remembers the material long after the training ends. Visual learners, rejoice! Try it at
vids.new
.
Create videos for employee training, product demos and more using Veo 3.1 in Vids, including a training on a new product line.
Get started today
With AI deeply integrated into the Google Workspace tools you use every day, it’s easier than ever to create compelling, high-quality visual content — without having a design degree. Try it out in Slides, Vids, and the Gemini app today, we can’t wait to see what you create.
*Nano Banana Pro and Veo 3.1 are available to qualifying Workspace customers with a business account. Availability and limits may vary by plan.
Posted in
AI and Machine Learning
Productivity and Collaboration
Related articles
Product Announcements
Teach Gemini your team’s know-hows with skills in Google Workspace
By Ali Douvre • 3-minute read
Product Announcements
Turn your data into action: 6 mini apps you can create with Sheets canvas
By Eric Birnbaum • 4-minute read
Product Announcements
Less switching, more flow: 5 new agentic capabilities across Google Workspace apps
By Jill Daley • 5-minute read
AI and Machine Learning
Spend less time prompting: 6 ways Workspace Intelligence offers personalized help
By Chris Curtis • 4-minute read
Footer Links
Follow us
Included applications
Included applications
Gmail
Meet
Chat
Calendar
Drive
Docs
Sheets
Slides
Forms
Sites
Keep
Apps Script
Security and management
Security and management
Admin
Endpoint
Vault
Work Insights
Solutions
Solutions
New Business
Small Business
Enterprise
Retail
Manufacturing
Professional Services
Technology
Healthcare
Government
Education
Nonprofits
Artificial Intelligence
Pricing
Pricing
Compare pricing plans
Add-ons
Add-ons
Gemini for Workspace
Meet hardware
Google Voice
AppSheet
Resources
Resources
Working remotely
Security
Customer Stories
FAQs
Partners
Marketplace
Integrations
Training & Certification
Refer Google Workspace
Learning and support
Learning and support
Admin Help
Setup and Deployment Center
Learning Center for Users
Forums for Admins
Google Workspace Dashboard
What's New in Google Workspace
Find a Google Workspace Partner
Join the community of IT Admins
Press
More from Google
More from Google
Google Cloud
Google Domains
Chrome Enterprise
Google Business Solutions
Google Ads
Business Messages
Join User Studies
About Google
Google Products
Privacy
Terms
Cookies management controls
Language
‪English‬
‪Deutsch‬
‪Français‬
‪한국어‬
‪日本語‬