September Workspace Drop: Nano Banana in Slides, shareable Gems, new Vids features, and more! | Google Workspace Blog
Jump to Content
Workspace
Blog
Contact sales
Get started
Workspace
Blog
Topics
Product Announcements
AI and Machine Learning
Productivity and Collaboration
Identity and Security
Future of Work
Hybrid Work
Customer Stories
Developers and Practitioners
Partners
Events
Public Sector
Product News
Gmail
Meet
Chat
Drive
Docs
Sheets
Vids
Contact sales
Get started
Product Announcements
September Workspace Drop:
Nano Banana in Slides, shareable Gems, new Vids features, and more!
September 24, 2025
The Google Workspace Team
In September’s Workspace Drop, we’re delivering our latest AI-powered features to help you and your team be more productive and communicate more effectively.
Here’s what’s new:
Create custom visuals with
image editing with Nano Banana
in the
Google Slides
and
Gemini app
.
Share your most useful Gems
with your team in the
Gemini app
.
Get even more helpful reports with
new formats that adapt to the report’s theme and content
in
NotebookLM
.
Convert an
image to video with Veo 3
, add a narrator to your videos with
AI-powered avatars
, and quickly edit videos with
video transcript trimming
in
Vids
.
Make Chat a hub for managing collaboration and workflow processes with the
Jira
,
Lucid
, and
ServiceNow
apps
.
Polish text in your presentations
with Gemini in
Slides
.
Create custom visuals with image editing with Nano Banana in Google Slides and the Gemini app
If you haven’t seen it yet, check out our latest image editing model that everyone is going
bananas
over —
Nano Banana
(aka Gemini 2.5 Flash Image). Now available in Gemini in Slides, this new model allows you to tweak parts of an image while the rest stays put. It’s smart enough to keep a person looking like themselves, even when you change their location or outfit (have you seen what you’d look like as an 80s glam rocker?).
These generated images can help teams quickly ideate on different concepts or liven up a team presentation. By accessing these capabilities using Gemini in Slides, you can create and modify images for your presentations quickly and easily without leaving the app.
Combine and edit images to level up your creative and visual assets.
Nano Banana is also available in the Gemini app. This is a game-changer for creative teams or really anyone looking to create and edit photorealistic images quickly. For example, you can take an existing product shot and instantly generate a new background or put it in another setting for a social media campaign.
Share your most useful Gems with your team in Gemini
Gemini Gems help you save detailed prompt instructions and context (like documents from your Drive) for repetitive tasks, so you can save time to focus on deeper, more creative collaboration. Now, we’re making it easy for the whole team to make use of these custom experts that you create with
shareable Gems
. Got a specialized Gem for a project, or one that helps you with a common team task? Share it with your colleagues, and now everyone on the team has access to the same powerful, personalized AI helper.
Share Gems with your team members to make them powerful team assets.
Get even more helpful reports with new formats that adapt to the report’s theme and content in NotebookLM
We’re introducing
redesigned reports for NotebookLM
. Report formats are suggested based on the theme, topic, or information mentioned in your sources. For example, upload a variety of strategy and planning documents for a project and NotebookLM might suggest a glossary of key information or a magazine-style explainer of the initiative. Or upload a campaign brief and NotebookLM might suggest a persona analysis or a detailed critique of the proposed channels or messaging.
Create tailored high quality documents with upgraded reports.
Convert an image to video with Veo 3, add a narrator to your videos with AI-powered avatars, and quickly edit videos with video transcript trimming in Vids
Last month we introduced
new features in Google Vids
, making it even easier to produce polished video content at work. A powerful new feature available in Vids uses
Veo 3 to convert an image to video
, helping you transform static product shots into dynamic 8-second video clips.
Veo 3 in Vids can help you convert images to video.
Camera shy? We’ve got you covered. It’s now easier to add a presenter and narrator to your videos. Just type your script and choose from Vids’ range of
AI-powered avatars
to deliver your message. Ready for the big (or small) screen? Great. We’re helping you edit with ease — and sound your best. With
transcript trimming
, Gemini generates the transcript and identifies “ums” and any awkward pauses that you can remove from the recording — with just a few clicks.
Bring your scripts to life with AI Avatars in Google Vids.
You can also now
edit videos stored in Google Drive directly in Vids
, making it quick and easy to work with your existing video content.
Make Chat a hub for managing collaboration and workflow processes with the Jira, Lucid, and ServiceNow apps
Switching back and forth between conversations and your business critical apps wastes time and leads to errors. That’s why we’re making Google Chat an even more powerful hub for collaboration with
several new and improved app integrations
that bring your essential tools right into the conversation.
Improved Jira integration:
Receive real-time project updates and take action on tickets without leaving Chat.
Lucid apps for Chat:
Brainstorm and diagram with your team using Lucidspark and Lucidchart directly in your conversations.
ServiceNow for Chat and Sheets:
Manage IT and HR requests, get approvals, and access knowledge base articles to streamline essential business processes.
Manage IT & HR requests, approvals, and knowledge base access directly from your chat platform with ServiceNow.
Polish text in your presentations with Gemini in Slides
Do you ever struggle to get just the right punchy text to make your pop on a slide? Now, Gemini can now help you
refine text in Slides
. Whether you need to shorten a paragraph, adjust your tone, or rephrase a key message, Gemini helps you craft the perfect narrative with just a few clicks.
Use Gemini to refine text in Slides.
Get started today
These updates are rolling out to Google Workspace customers now, so give them a try and see how they help you and your team. As always, you can
learn more about unlocking the power of generative AI with Workspace
.
Posted in
Product Announcements
AI and Machine Learning
Related articles
Product Announcements
Teach Gemini your team’s know-hows with skills in Google Workspace
By Ali Douvre • 3-minute read
Product Announcements
Turn your data into action: 6 mini apps you can create with Sheets canvas
By Eric Birnbaum • 4-minute read
Product Announcements
Less switching, more flow: 5 new agentic capabilities across Google Workspace apps
By Jill Daley • 5-minute read
Product Announcements
Google Pics brings pro-level AI image creation and editing to Google Workspace
By Meg Whittenberger • 2-minute read
Footer Links
Follow us
Included applications
Included applications
Gmail
Meet
Chat
Calendar
Drive
Docs
Sheets
Slides
Forms
Sites
Keep
Apps Script
Security and management
Security and management
Admin
Endpoint
Vault
Work Insights
Solutions
Solutions
New Business
Small Business
Enterprise
Retail
Manufacturing
Professional Services
Technology
Healthcare
Government
Education
Nonprofits
Artificial Intelligence
Pricing
Pricing
Compare pricing plans
Add-ons
Add-ons
Gemini for Workspace
Meet hardware
Google Voice
AppSheet
Resources
Resources
Working remotely
Security
Customer Stories
FAQs
Partners
Marketplace
Integrations
Training & Certification
Refer Google Workspace
Learning and support
Learning and support
Admin Help
Setup and Deployment Center
Learning Center for Users
Forums for Admins
Google Workspace Dashboard
What's New in Google Workspace
Find a Google Workspace Partner
Join the community of IT Admins
Press
More from Google
More from Google
Google Cloud
Google Domains
Chrome Enterprise
Google Business Solutions
Google Ads
Business Messages
Join User Studies
About Google
Google Products
Privacy
Terms
Cookies management controls
Language
‪English‬
‪Deutsch‬
‪Français‬
‪한국어‬
‪日本語‬