11 Tips to Work Smarter with Gemini in Google Workspace | Google Workspace Blog
Jump to Content
Workspace
Blog
Contact sales
Get started
Workspace
Blog
Topics
Product Announcements
AI and Machine Learning
Productivity and Collaboration
Identity and Security
Future of Work
Hybrid Work
Customer Stories
Developers and Practitioners
Partners
Events
Public Sector
Product News
Gmail
Meet
Chat
Drive
Docs
Sheets
Vids
Contact sales
Get started
AI and Machine Learning
11 tips to help teams work smarter with Gemini
March 12, 2026
Deanne Chen
Google Workspace with Gemini Product Marketing Manager
Try Google Workspace at No Cost
Get a business email, all the storage you need, video conferencing, and more.
SIGN UP
Achieving breakthrough performance with AI isn’t just about working faster. Successful businesses use AI to move beyond efficiency, and refocus the time savings on innovation and creating value (such as shipping better products and services). For example, organizations that are highly transformed by AI see a
2x improvement in creativity and focus
compared to organizations in the initial stages.
So how does an organization become highly transformed by AI? A critical step is enabling your teams and employees to get hands-on and integrate AI into daily work in useful ways. To help you accelerate your organization’s AI education journey, we created
Introduction to Gemini at Work: A Practical Guide
.
A successful AI transformation needs a
clear adoption strategy
and a
pilot program
that integrates learning resources and best practices. Sharing actionable tips for Google Workspace with Gemini enables your teams to discover high-impact AI use cases that drive your organization forward and achieve tangible business outcomes. For example, a customer experience team that learns to use Google Workspace with Gemini to draft client emails and refine their documentation can both increase their capacity for strategic work and raise the bar on the overall customer experience.
To help your teams explore high-impact use cases, we’re sharing 11 tips below. For the complete list, check out the
full guide
.
AI fluency basics
1. It all starts with AI prompting
How to apply prompting best practices.
Great answers from Gemini start with great prompts (how you start the conversation with your AI-powered assistant). This is foundational for any team looking to start learning AI skills at work. To get the most relevant results in the Gemini app and NotebookLM, try to always include:
Persona:
Who is Gemini acting as?
Task:
What exactly do you need done?
Context:
What details or documents should it use?
Format:
Do you want a table, bullet points, an email, or something else?
Here is an example using all four areas: You are a professional business analyst.
[Persona]
Summarize the main action items from this week’s project updates.
[Task]
Focus on items that require immediate attention from leadership.
[Context]
Provide the response as a three-bullet executive summary.
[Format]
2. Bad at prompting? Improve your prompts with Gemini.
If your teams are struggling to write a comprehensive prompt, they still have good options. For example, they can ask Gemini: "
Make this a power prompt: [original prompt text here]
". Gemini will make suggestions on how to improve the prompt.
Generally the more detail the prompt has, the better. If writing prompts continues to be challenging, in some scenarios teams can ask Gemini quick questions directly in Workspace apps like Gmail, Docs, and Sheets (responses are grounded in the context of the app you’re in). To get an even better answer, they can reference other files from Drive to reinforce the context.
Using Gemini to deliver your next project
No matter the project, every knowledge worker encounters the same tasks: strategize or plan, create presentations, run meetings, and communicate across teams to deliver results.
Here’s how Gemini can help with each of these project phases:
First phase: strategize and plan
3. Make sense of scattered information with NotebookLM
Synthesize research and share knowledge with NotebookLM.
Instead of employees spending hours digging through technical manuals or hundreds of pages of research, they can upload them to
NotebookLM
. Just ask, "What are the 5 most common themes across these customer interviews?" to extract key insights instantly. This accelerates research, speeds up the decision-making process, and even helps entire teams get their questions answered, instantly.
4. Draft project briefs in seconds in Docs
Instantly draft a project brief with Gemini in Google Docs.
Empower your teams to use Gemini in Docs to go from a blank page to a polished proposal. You can even prompt it to use specific files in your Drive to ensure the brief is grounded in your organization’s existing research and historic data.
5. Organize data into trackers in Sheets
Create a chart from a prompt using Gemini in Sheets.
Tired of formatting tables in Google Sheets? The days of building tables from scratch are over. In Sheets, Gemini can instantly create organized project trackers with columns for timelines, stakeholders, and risk assessments based on a simple description, allowing project owners to focus on execution rather than administration
Second phase: create compelling presentations
6. Create high-impact custom visuals in Slides
Use “Help me visualize” in Slides to create unique images.
Save time searching for stock photos by using the Gemini app or Slides to generate unique, high-quality images from a simple text description. This helps improve all presentations in your organization, keeping them engaging and tailored to the message.
7. Polish presentations in a fraction of the time
Get a design upgrade with Nano Banana Pro in Slides.
No more spending hours formatting slides. Help teams gain valuable time back and improve their presentations by using the
Nano Banana Pro
feature in Slides to
Beautify this slide
. The result is an instant slide design upgrade while keeping the original text and message intact.
Third phase: Get aligned with productive meetings
8. Before the meeting: streamline scheduling in Gmail
Use Help me schedule in Gmail to propose free times.
Instead of switching between Calendar and Gmail, your teams can use
Help me schedule
right inside of Gmail to find and offer time availability right from an email draft. This makes coordination easier, especially when interacting with external partners or clients whose calendars aren't visible.
9. During and after the meeting: stay focused and let Gemini take notes
Let Gemini take notes for you in Google Meet.
Help your teams stay present and focused on the conversation, not the typing. Let Gemini take meeting notes in
Google Meet
, then identify action items and key decisions in a follow-up email.
10. During the meeting: catch up instantly if you're late
Ask for a summary privately with Ask Gemini in Meet.
Leaders and many team members often jump between back-to-back calls. If someone joins the meeting late, they can
Ask Gemini
in Meet for a summary of what has been discussed so far. The best part is they can catch up without disrupting the flow of the meeting for the rest of the team.
And if anyone is distracted (it happens to all of us, we’re human after all!) they can privately ask a question about what they missed.
Ask Gemini
in Meet responses are only visible to you.
Fourth phase: communicate effectively to keep your project on track
11. Draft professional emails and refine your tone
Use Gemini in Gmail to help you draft different phrasing.
Gemini makes it easy to keep your team’s emails professional and to the point. Employees can use Gemini in Gmail to draft clear updates to leadership or vendors. And if a message is sensitive, ask Gemini to brainstorm different ways to phrase it to ensure it lands with the right impact.
Pro tip: Use Gems to scale team expertise and productivity
Create Gems to act as custom AI experts.
Instead of retyping the same lengthy prompts, teams can create a custom
Gem
for specific, repetitive tasks. They can build specialized Gems like an "Email Drafter" or "Social Media Guru" that are trained on your specific brand voice and data. Then, they can share Gems across teams to ensure consistency and save time at scale.
By automating manual tasks like building trackers, formatting slides, or striking the right tone for communications, Gemini removes the friction from every phase of the project lifecycle. This empowers your teams to reclaim their time and focus on the high-value strategic work that drives real business results.
Ready to save time and work smarter? Share the "
Introduction to Gemini at Work
" guide with your organization today.
Posted in
AI and Machine Learning
Productivity and Collaboration
Related articles
Product Announcements
Teach Gemini your team’s know-hows with skills in Google Workspace
By Ali Douvre • 3-minute read
Product Announcements
Turn your data into action: 6 mini apps you can create with Sheets canvas
By Eric Birnbaum • 4-minute read
Product Announcements
Less switching, more flow: 5 new agentic capabilities across Google Workspace apps
By Jill Daley • 5-minute read
AI and Machine Learning
Spend less time prompting: 6 ways Workspace Intelligence offers personalized help
By Chris Curtis • 4-minute read
Footer Links
Follow us
Included applications
Included applications
Gmail
Meet
Chat
Calendar
Drive
Docs
Sheets
Slides
Forms
Sites
Keep
Apps Script
Security and management
Security and management
Admin
Endpoint
Vault
Work Insights
Solutions
Solutions
New Business
Small Business
Enterprise
Retail
Manufacturing
Professional Services
Technology
Healthcare
Government
Education
Nonprofits
Artificial Intelligence
Pricing
Pricing
Compare pricing plans
Add-ons
Add-ons
Gemini for Workspace
Meet hardware
Google Voice
AppSheet
Resources
Resources
Working remotely
Security
Customer Stories
FAQs
Partners
Marketplace
Integrations
Training & Certification
Refer Google Workspace
Learning and support
Learning and support
Admin Help
Setup and Deployment Center
Learning Center for Users
Forums for Admins
Google Workspace Dashboard
What's New in Google Workspace
Find a Google Workspace Partner
Join the community of IT Admins
Press
More from Google
More from Google
Google Cloud
Google Domains
Chrome Enterprise
Google Business Solutions
Google Ads
Business Messages
Join User Studies
About Google
Google Products
Privacy
Terms
Cookies management controls
Language
‪English‬
‪Deutsch‬
‪Français‬
‪한국어‬
‪日本語‬