Google Workspace Updates: Introducing Nano Banana Pro in Slides, Vids, Gemini app, and NotebookLM
Products
For Admins
Help Center
Release Calendar
Subscribe
email
This official feed from the Google Workspace team provides essential information about new features and improvements for Google Workspace customers.
Comms & Meetings
▾
Gmail
Google Chat
Google Calendar
Google Tasks
Google Groups
Google Meet
Google Meet hardware
Google Voice
Content & Collaboration
▾
Google Drive
Google Docs
Google Sheets
Google Slides
Google Forms
Google Keep
Google Sites
Google Vids
Gemini
▾
Gemini
Gemini App
Gemini Notebook
Workspace Studio
Admin & Security
▾
Admin console
Security and Compliance
Directory Sync
Google Workspace Migrate
Google Vault
Identity
MDM
SSO
Education
▾
Google Workspace for Education
Google Classroom
More
▾
Google Workspace Marketplace
API
Google Apps Script
AppSheet
Mobile
iOS
Android
Beta
Additional Google services
Weekly Recap
Other
Google Workspace Add-ons
rss_feed
arrow_back
Back
November 20, 2025
Introducing Nano Banana Pro in Slides, Vids, Gemini app, and NotebookLM
Gemini App
Gemini Notebook
Google Slides
Google Vids
Rapid Release
Scheduled Release
What’s changing
We’re excited to introduce Nano Banana Pro (Gemini 3 Pro Image), our new state-of-the-art image generation and editing model. Starting today, Nano Banana Pro is rolling out to Google Workspace customers in Google Slides, Vids, the Gemini app, and NotebookLM.
Google Slides:
“Help me visualize” in Slides now uses Nano Banana Pro to help anyone create stunning infographics, images, and slides. We also added an all-new experience, “Beautify this slide”, to help people create thoughtfully designed visuals—based on the content of an existing slide—that can be used as individual slides. Here’s what’s coming:
Infographic:
Generate detailed, professional infographics directly in Slides, all with just a simple prompt. Nano Banana Pro is connected to Google Search’s vast knowledge base, meaning it does an incredible job at representing real-world objects and places, all while taking into account the details you describe in your prompt.
Images:
The same experience you know, now using Nano Banana Pro. Create stunning, realistic images that help add value to any slide deck.
Beautify this slide:
In just a click, “Beautify this slide” turns your ideas into a compelling visual with more accurate, legible text while modeling the look and feel of the overall deck. Like what you see? Simply select “insert as new slide” and the visual will be added directly into your deck as an individual slide.
Beautify your slides with Nano Banana Pro in Slides
NotebookLM:
With Nano Banana Pro in NotebookLM, you can now visualize key insights from your sources as high-quality infographics. This allows you to distill complex information and relationships into a single, high-impact visual that makes your data easier to digest. You can also create complete and polished slide decks directly from your sources and share them as a PDF.
See it in action
.
Google Vids:
In Google Vids, Nano Banana Pro allows you to generate and edit images with greater precision. With new multi-turn prompting, you can refine your visuals iteratively, helping you create custom, production-ready assets to include in your videos.
Gemini app:
Generate high-quality, sophisticated visuals that help bring your creative ideas to life in the Gemini app. Simply select “Create images” and “Thinking” from the model drop down menu to access Nano Banana Pro.
Note:
Workspace customers will get promotional access to higher usage limits of Nano Banana Pro in these apps for at least 60 days, allowing users to experiment with these features. Per-user usage limits will apply afterward; we’ll provide more information in a future update prior to any changes. At this time, image generation and editing is only available to users over the age of 18.
Developers and business teams can also access Nano Banana Pro on Vertex AI, and soon in Gemini Enterprise.
Learn more
.
Getting started
Admins:
There are no admin controls for this feature.
End users:
Visit the Help Center for more information on generating images in
Gemini
,
NotebookLM
,
Slides
, and
Vids
.
Rollout pace
Rapid Release and Scheduled Release domains
: Gradual rollout (up to 15 days for feature visibility) starting on November 20, 2025
Availability
Nano Banana Pro in Google Slides, Google Vids, the Gemini app, and NotebookLM is available for:
Google Workspace Business Standard and Plus
Google Workspace Enterprise Standard and Plus
Google AI Pro and AI Ultra
Google AI Ultra for Business
Google AI Pro for Education
Nano Banana Pro in the Gemini app and NotebookLM is also available for Google Workspace:
Essentials Starter, Enterprise Essentials, Enterprise Essentials Plus
Business Starter
Enterprise Starter
Nonprofits
Education Fundamentals, Standard, Plus
Frontline Starter, Standard, Plus
Nano Banana Pro in Google Vids is also available for Google Workspace:
Essentials Starter, Enterprise Essentials, Enterprise Essentials Plus
Business Starter *
Enterprise Starter *
Nonprofits *
Education Plus and Teaching and Learning add-on*
*For a limited time, at least through May 31, 2026, these plans can access generative AI features in Vids.
Learn about Google Vids availability
.
Resources
Google Workspace Admin Help:
Turn the Gemini app on or off for users
Google Workspace Admin Help:
Turn NotebookLM on or off for users
Google Workspace Admin Help:
Manage access to Gemini features in Workspace services
Google Workspace Admin Help:
Turn Vids on or off for users
Useful Links
Join the official community for Google Workspace administrators
In the Google Cloud Community, discuss the latest features with Googlers and other Google Workspace admins like you. Learn tips and tricks that will make your work and life easier. Be the first to know what's happening with Google Workspace.
Learn about more Google Workspace launches
On the “What’s new in Google Workspace?” Help Center page, learn about new products and features launching in Google Workspace, including smaller changes that haven’t been announced on the Google Workspace Updates blog.
Learn about our customers
Discover how a diverse range of organizations, from small businesses and nimble startups to globally recognized Fortune 500 corporations, leverage the collaborative power of Google Workspace. Explore examples of how teams of are streamlining workflows and driving productivity by utilizing Google-Workspace.
Subscribe to Our Blog Updates
send
Follow Google Workspace
rss_feed
Learning & Support
Admin Help
Learning Center for Users
Community Forum
Google Help
Workspace Dashboard
What's New
Resources
Security
Customer Stories
Working Remotely
Find a Partner
Marketplace
FAQs
Integrations
Training & Certification
More from Google
Google Cloud
Google Domains
Chrome Enterprise
Google Business Solutions
Business Messages
Join User Studies
©
Google LLC | 1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy, Mountain View, CA 94043 |
Privacy
|
Terms