Google Workspace Updates: Users of all ages can now generate images in the Gemini app when signed into their Workspace account
Products
For Admins
Help Center
Release Calendar
Subscribe
email
This official feed from the Google Workspace team provides essential information about new features and improvements for Google Workspace customers.
Comms & Meetings
▾
Gmail
Google Chat
Google Calendar
Google Tasks
Google Groups
Google Meet
Google Meet hardware
Google Voice
Content & Collaboration
▾
Google Drive
Google Docs
Google Sheets
Google Slides
Google Forms
Google Keep
Google Sites
Google Vids
Gemini
▾
Gemini
Gemini App
Gemini Notebook
Workspace Studio
Admin & Security
▾
Admin console
Security and Compliance
Directory Sync
Google Workspace Migrate
Google Vault
Identity
MDM
SSO
Education
▾
Google Workspace for Education
Google Classroom
More
▾
Google Workspace Marketplace
API
Google Apps Script
AppSheet
Mobile
iOS
Android
Beta
Additional Google services
Weekly Recap
Other
Google Workspace Add-ons
rss_feed
arrow_back
Back
December 20, 2025
Users of all ages can now generate images in the Gemini app when signed into their Workspace account
Gemini App
Google Workspace for Education
Rapid Release
Scheduled Release
What’s changing
We’re expanding image generation powered by Nano Banana in the Gemini app to Google Workspace users of all ages.
This update brings a highly requested and powerful creative tool to younger users, helping them visualize ideas and bring their work to life. For example, a student working on a presentation can now ask Gemini to "create an image of a cell's mitochondria for my biology project" or "generate a picture of a public square in ancient Rome."
Expanding access to this feature provides a more consistent creative experience for all Workspace users.
Users under 18 years old can improve upon their generated images with follow-ups, but cannot edit them directly or use uploaded images for image generation. To prepare to bring image generation to younger users, we conducted rigorous testing specific to users under 18. We’ve trained Gemini to recognize areas that are inappropriate to youth, and implemented safety features and guardrails, including content filters, to help prevent unsafe content, such as illegal or age-gated substances, from appearing in its responses to these users.  As a reminder, these filters aren't perfect, so please grant access as appropriate for different age levels. Teachers and staff should continue to help students use Gemini responsibly.
Getting started
Admins:
Admins can prevent users from generating images in the Gemini app by turning the Gemini app service OFF in the Admin console for relevant organizational units (OUs) or groups. Visit the Help Center to
learn more about turning the Gemini app on or off
.  Additional resources are below.
Manage which users can access Gemini for Education
.
Set up groups or organizational units
to give only certain users in their domain access.
Get tips for communicating with parents and guardians
about Google Workspace for Education.
End users:
There is no end user setting for this feature. Visit the Help Center to
learn more about generating and editing images in the Gemini app
.
Rollout pace
Rapid Release and Scheduled Release domains
: Available now
Availability
Available for Google Workspace for Education Fundamentals, Standard, and Plus users of all ages
Resources
Google Workspace Admin Help:
Turn the Gemini app on or off: Control how Workspace users access the Gemini app
Google Help:
Generate & edit images with Gemini Apps
Useful Links
Join the official community for Google Workspace administrators
In the Google Cloud Community, discuss the latest features with Googlers and other Google Workspace admins like you. Learn tips and tricks that will make your work and life easier. Be the first to know what's happening with Google Workspace.
Learn about more Google Workspace launches
On the “What’s new in Google Workspace?” Help Center page, learn about new products and features launching in Google Workspace, including smaller changes that haven’t been announced on the Google Workspace Updates blog.
Learn about our customers
Discover how a diverse range of organizations, from small businesses and nimble startups to globally recognized Fortune 500 corporations, leverage the collaborative power of Google Workspace. Explore examples of how teams of are streamlining workflows and driving productivity by utilizing Google-Workspace.
Subscribe to Our Blog Updates
send
Follow Google Workspace
rss_feed
Learning & Support
Admin Help
Learning Center for Users
Community Forum
Google Help
Workspace Dashboard
What's New
Resources
Security
Customer Stories
Working Remotely
Find a Partner
Marketplace
FAQs
Integrations
Training & Certification
More from Google
Google Cloud
Google Domains
Chrome Enterprise
Google Business Solutions
Business Messages
Join User Studies
©
Google LLC | 1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy, Mountain View, CA 94043 |
Privacy
|
Terms