Google Workspace Updates: Get higher access to advanced AI in Google Workspace
Products
For Admins
Help Center
Release Calendar
Subscribe
email
This official feed from the Google Workspace team provides essential information about new features and improvements for Google Workspace customers.
Comms & Meetings
▾
Gmail
Google Chat
Google Calendar
Google Tasks
Google Groups
Google Meet
Google Meet hardware
Google Voice
Content & Collaboration
▾
Google Drive
Google Docs
Google Sheets
Google Slides
Google Forms
Google Keep
Google Sites
Google Vids
Gemini
▾
Gemini
Gemini App
Gemini Notebook
Workspace Studio
Admin & Security
▾
Admin console
Security and Compliance
Directory Sync
Google Workspace Migrate
Google Vault
Identity
MDM
SSO
Education
▾
Google Workspace for Education
Google Classroom
More
▾
Google Workspace Marketplace
API
Google Apps Script
AppSheet
Mobile
iOS
Android
Beta
Additional Google services
Weekly Recap
Other
Google Workspace Add-ons
rss_feed
arrow_back
Back
February 5, 2026
Get higher access to advanced AI in Google Workspace
Gemini
Google Workspace
Google Workspace Add-ons
Other
Over the past year, we've launched groundbreaking AI capabilities into our Workspace plans, such as comprehensive Deep Research reports and stunning image generation with Nano Banana Pro. These AI features come with usage limits that are sufficient for many users, but your most innovative teams may want even more.
To meet that demand, we’re introducing
AI Expanded Access
, a new Workspace add-on that sits between our standard offering and our top-tier plan. This gives organizations more choice in how they empower their power users with these advanced AI capabilities:
Business and Enterprise plans:
Includes standard access in most Workspace plans at no extra cost.
AI Expanded Access add-on (New!):
Unlocks higher access to allow teams to further scale their impact.
AI Ultra Access add-on (formerly Google AI Ultra for Business):
Provides the highest access to help specialists push what's possible as they tackle their most ambitious creative, coding, and research projects.
Advanced AI features with
higher access
available through these add-ons include:
Advanced image generation:
Create and edit more images using Nano Banana Pro in Slides, NotebookLM, and the Gemini app to find the perfect visual for every placement and audience segment.
Video generation:
Scale video production to a daily content engine by generating more professional-grade videos using Veo 3.1 in Vids (including the use of AI avatars), Flow and the Gemini app.
Gemini app:
Solve complex strategic problems with higher access to deep reasoning in our most capable models such as Gemini 3 Pro.
NotebookLM:
Get instant insights from even larger source libraries and generate more high-value outputs to accelerate understanding, such as Audio Overviews, infographics, and Mind Maps.
Workspace Studio (rolling out now*):
Execute more automations from ad-hoc tasks like labeling emails to always-on workflows that deliver pre-meeting briefs and auto-create follow-up tasks.
Speech translation (rolling out now*):
Bridge language gaps in more meetings, automatically translating speech in real-time, while maintaining the tone and voice of the speaker.
Visit the
Help Center
for details on feature availability and limits. As we release new advanced AI features, your teams will also get higher access to these through the AI Expanded and AI Ultra add-ons.
*Workspace Studio is now available for Rapid Release and expected for Scheduled Release by the end of February; promotional access to higher limits of Workspace Studio in Business and Enterprise plans will remain in effect until September 1, 2026.
**Speech translation in Google Meet is currently rolling out to Rapid Release domains and expected to start rolling out to Scheduled Release domains later in February. Promotional access to higher limits of speech translation in Business and Enterprise plans is ongoing; we’ll communicate any updates to these limits in advance of them going into effect.
What’s not changing
To ensure every customer can benefit from AI, we’ll continue to include standard access to these advanced capabilities in most Workspace Business and Enterprise plans at no additional cost.
Additionally, features like Take notes for me in Meet, Help me write in Gmail, Help me create in Docs, and more are available in our standard plans with generous limits designed to support the everyday needs of most teams. This ensures these powerful tools remain an accessible and essential part of your plan.
Getting started
Admins:
The AI Expanded Access add-on can be purchased and assigned to specific users with eligible Business or Enterprise plans to provide more access to advanced AI capabilities.
Admins can review AI feature usage levels (by feature, user, and app) in the Admin console at Generative AI > Gemini reports.
End users:
Users assigned a license will automatically get access to higher usage limits for certain AI features. Users will see an "
Expanded
" badge in the Gemini app, NotebookLM, and Flow, associated with their AI Expanded license.
Rollout pace
Starting today, the AI Expanded Access add-on is available to purchase, and will enable higher usage of AI capabilities in Workspace apps, including the Gemini app, NotebookLM, and Flow.
Workspace customers with Business and Enterprise plans currently have promotional access to higher usage of certain AI features in their plans, including advanced image generation with Nano Banana Pro, and video and AI avatar generation with Veo 3.1. Beginning
March 1, 2026
, Workspace customers will need to purchase the AI Expanded Access add-on to continue to get higher access to these advanced AI features.
Availability
Starting today, customers with the Google Workspace plans below can purchase the AI Expanded Access add-on:
Business Standard and Plus
Enterprise Standard and Plus
Visit the
Help Center
for more details on which AI capabilities you can start accessing with higher usage when you purchase the add-on, and how to manage access to
additional services
like Flow.
Resources
Google Workspace Admin Help:
AI Expanded Access
Google Workspace Admin Help:
Usage Limits in Gemini
Google Workspace Admin Help:
Compare AI Expansion add-ons
Google Labs:
Flow
Useful Links
Join the official community for Google Workspace administrators
In the Google Cloud Community, discuss the latest features with Googlers and other Google Workspace admins like you. Learn tips and tricks that will make your work and life easier. Be the first to know what's happening with Google Workspace.
Learn about more Google Workspace launches
On the “What’s new in Google Workspace?” Help Center page, learn about new products and features launching in Google Workspace, including smaller changes that haven’t been announced on the Google Workspace Updates blog.
Learn about our customers
Discover how a diverse range of organizations, from small businesses and nimble startups to globally recognized Fortune 500 corporations, leverage the collaborative power of Google Workspace. Explore examples of how teams of are streamlining workflows and driving productivity by utilizing Google-Workspace.
Subscribe to Our Blog Updates
send
Follow Google Workspace
rss_feed
Learning & Support
Admin Help
Learning Center for Users
Community Forum
Google Help
Workspace Dashboard
What's New
Resources
Security
Customer Stories
Working Remotely
Find a Partner
Marketplace
FAQs
Integrations
Training & Certification
More from Google
Google Cloud
Google Domains
Chrome Enterprise
Google Business Solutions
Business Messages
Join User Studies
©
Google LLC | 1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy, Mountain View, CA 94043 |
Privacy
|
Terms