Google Workspace Updates: Introducing Nano Banana 2 in the Gemini app
Products
For Admins
Help Center
Release Calendar
Subscribe
email
This official feed from the Google Workspace team provides essential information about new features and improvements for Google Workspace customers.
Comms & Meetings
▾
Gmail
Google Chat
Google Calendar
Google Tasks
Google Groups
Google Meet
Google Meet hardware
Google Voice
Content & Collaboration
▾
Google Drive
Google Docs
Google Sheets
Google Slides
Google Forms
Google Keep
Google Sites
Google Vids
Gemini
▾
Gemini
Gemini App
Gemini Notebook
Workspace Studio
Admin & Security
▾
Admin console
Security and Compliance
Directory Sync
Google Workspace Migrate
Google Vault
Identity
MDM
SSO
Education
▾
Google Workspace for Education
Google Classroom
More
▾
Google Workspace Marketplace
API
Google Apps Script
AppSheet
Mobile
iOS
Android
Beta
Additional Google services
Weekly Recap
Other
Google Workspace Add-ons
rss_feed
arrow_back
Back
February 26, 2026
Introducing Nano Banana 2 in the Gemini app
Gemini App
Rapid Release
Scheduled Release
Update (March 31, 2026): We updated this article to reflect that image generation with Nano Banana 2 is now also available to users who are under 18 years of age. Image editing with Nano Banana 2 is still currently only available to users who are 18 years or older.
Starting today, we’re rolling out Nano Banana 2 (Gemini 3.1 Flash Image), our best image model yet, to Workspace customers in the Gemini app.
Nano Banana 2, which replaces our previous Nano Banana model, brings the high-speed intelligence of Gemini Flash to visual generation, making once-exclusive Pro features accessible to a wider audience, including:
Advanced world knowledge:
Nano Banana 2 pulls from the Gemini model’s real-world knowledge base and is powered by real-time information and images from web search to more accurately render specific subjects. This deep understanding also empowers you to create infographics, turn notes into diagrams, and generate data visualizations.
Production-ready specs:
Make attention-grabbing assets with full control over aspect ratios and resolutions—ranging from 1K for free and 2K for paid users. Your visuals will stay sharp and perfectly sized, whether you are generating a vertical social media Story or a wide-screen presentation backdrop.
Precision text rendering and translation:
Generate accurate, legible text for infographics or marketing mockups. Users can even translate and localize text within an image to share your ideas globally.
Nano Banana 2 also dramatically closes the gap between speed and beauty, delivering high-fidelity, photorealistic imagery. Here’s what our newest model offers and has improved on from the original Nano Banana:
Subject consistency:
Maintain character resemblance of up to five characters and the fidelity of up to ten objects in a single workflow in the Gemini app, allowing you to storyboard and build narratives without altering the appearance of your inputs.
Precise instruction following:
With enhanced instruction following, the model adheres more strictly to your complex requests, capturing the specific nuances of your idea so the image you get is the image you asked for.
Visual fidelity upgrade:
Nano Banana 2 delivers vibrant lighting, richer textures, and sharper details, maintaining high-quality aesthetics at the speed expected from Flash.
Getting started
Admins:
There are no admin controls for this feature.
End users:
Visit the Help Center for more information on generating images in
Gemini.
Rollout pace
Rapid Release and Scheduled Release domains:
Available now
Availability
Nano Banana 2 will replace Nano Banana Pro across the Fast, Thinking and Pro models for Google Workspace customers, Workspace Individual subscribers, and users with personal Google accounts who are signed in to the Gemini app.
Workspace users who have had access to Nano Banana Pro will keep access to Nano Banana Pro for specialized tasks by regenerating images via the three-dot menu.
Resources
Keyword:
Nano Banana 2: Closing the gap between speed and beauty
Keyword:
Introducing Nano Banana Pro
Google Workspace Admin Help:
Turn the Gemini app on or off for users
Useful Links
Join the official community for Google Workspace administrators
In the Google Cloud Community, discuss the latest features with Googlers and other Google Workspace admins like you. Learn tips and tricks that will make your work and life easier. Be the first to know what's happening with Google Workspace.
Learn about more Google Workspace launches
On the “What’s new in Google Workspace?” Help Center page, learn about new products and features launching in Google Workspace, including smaller changes that haven’t been announced on the Google Workspace Updates blog.
Learn about our customers
Discover how a diverse range of organizations, from small businesses and nimble startups to globally recognized Fortune 500 corporations, leverage the collaborative power of Google Workspace. Explore examples of how teams of are streamlining workflows and driving productivity by utilizing Google-Workspace.
Subscribe to Our Blog Updates
send
Follow Google Workspace
rss_feed
Learning & Support
Admin Help
Learning Center for Users
Community Forum
Google Help
Workspace Dashboard
What's New
Resources
Security
Customer Stories
Working Remotely
Find a Partner
Marketplace
FAQs
Integrations
Training & Certification
More from Google
Google Cloud
Google Domains
Chrome Enterprise
Google Business Solutions
Business Messages
Join User Studies
©
Google LLC | 1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy, Mountain View, CA 94043 |
Privacy
|
Terms