Google Workspace Updates: Enhanced AI avatar features and capabilities in Google Vids
Products
For Admins
Help Center
Release Calendar
Subscribe
email
This official feed from the Google Workspace team provides essential information about new features and improvements for Google Workspace customers.
Comms & Meetings
▾
Gmail
Google Chat
Google Calendar
Google Tasks
Google Groups
Google Meet
Google Meet hardware
Google Voice
Content & Collaboration
▾
Google Drive
Google Docs
Google Sheets
Google Slides
Google Forms
Google Keep
Google Sites
Google Vids
Gemini
▾
Gemini
Gemini App
Gemini Notebook
Workspace Studio
Admin & Security
▾
Admin console
Security and Compliance
Directory Sync
Google Workspace Migrate
Google Vault
Identity
MDM
SSO
Education
▾
Google Workspace for Education
Google Classroom
More
▾
Google Workspace Marketplace
API
Google Apps Script
AppSheet
Mobile
iOS
Android
Beta
Additional Google services
Weekly Recap
Other
Google Workspace Add-ons
rss_feed
arrow_back
Back
June 17, 2026
Enhanced AI avatar features and capabilities in Google Vids
Google Vids
Rapid Release
Scheduled Release
With the integration of Gemini 3.1 Flash Text-To-Speech (TTS) and the latest capabilities in Veo 3.1, AI avatars in
Google Vids
have become more realistic and expressive than ever. We’re excited to announce expanded language support, a new collection of avatar defaults, and the ability to direct your custom avatars to take action in any generated video.
Expanded preset avatars with more expressive speaking
Samples of new default avatars
We’ve expanded avatar options from 23 to 53 default presets, spanning photorealistic, 3D cartoon, and graphic novel styles. This broader gallery includes avatars like Sofia, Jack, Charlie, Finley, and Eleanor, all powered by Gemini Audio to speak with greater degrees of expression, realism, and conversational tones.
Expanded speaker support to 24 languages
Full list of language support in Google Vids UI
We’ve added support for 16 new languages, including Hindi, Bengali, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Arabic, Indonesian, Russian, Dutch, Polish, Thai, Turkish, Vietnamese, Romanian, and Ukrainian. 

These languages join our existing set—English, Spanish, Portuguese, Japanese, Korean, French, Italian, and German—bringing the total to 24 supported languages for AI avatar and voiceovers.
Create custom avatars with the latest Gemini voice model
User experience of assigning new voices to custom avatars
With custom avatars in Vids, you can design your avatar using Nano Banana Pro. Starting today, you can choose from 30+ voices powered by Gemini Audio that offer increased expression, language support, and steering control over how they speak.
Direct your custom avatars to take action in addition to speaking
Generated sample of a directed custom avatar
Previously, users could only direct default avatars. Now, you can add custom avatars as an ingredient in generated video clips, unlocking new ways to have your customized spokesperson tell your story. Every generation preserves your custom avatar's appearance and voice, ensuring your customizations are preserved throughout new generations.
Control custom actions:
Instruct your avatar to walk, talk, and use objects simply by typing a text prompt describing their actions.
Use image references:
Upload additional images to direct your avatar in customized locations or with branded logos.
Getting started
Admins:
There is no admin control for these features.
End users:
Visit the Help Center to
learn more about using AI avatars in Vids
.
Rollout pace
Rapid Release and Scheduled Release domains
: Full rollout (1–3 days for feature visibility) starting on June 17, 2026
Availability
Business:
Business Starter, Standard, and Plus
Enterprise:
Enterprise Starter, Standard, and Plus
Education:
Education Plus
Consumer:
All users with personal Google accounts, including Google AI Pro and Ultra
Other Editions:
Enterprise Essentials, and Enterprise Essentials Plus; Nonprofits; Individual
Education Add-ons:
Teaching and Learning; Google AI Pro for Education
Other Add-ons:
AI Expanded Access*
*Users with AI Expanded Access add-on licenses have
higher limits
on usage of AI avatars in Vids.
Resources
Google Docs Editors Help:
Use AI avatars in Google Vids
Useful Links
Join the official community for Google Workspace administrators
In the Google Cloud Community, discuss the latest features with Googlers and other Google Workspace admins like you. Learn tips and tricks that will make your work and life easier. Be the first to know what's happening with Google Workspace.
Learn about more Google Workspace launches
On the “What’s new in Google Workspace?” Help Center page, learn about new products and features launching in Google Workspace, including smaller changes that haven’t been announced on the Google Workspace Updates blog.
Learn about our customers
Discover how a diverse range of organizations, from small businesses and nimble startups to globally recognized Fortune 500 corporations, leverage the collaborative power of Google Workspace. Explore examples of how teams of are streamlining workflows and driving productivity by utilizing Google-Workspace.
Subscribe to Our Blog Updates
send
Follow Google Workspace
rss_feed
Learning & Support
Admin Help
Learning Center for Users
Community Forum
Google Help
Workspace Dashboard
What's New
Resources
Security
Customer Stories
Working Remotely
Find a Partner
Marketplace
FAQs
Integrations
Training & Certification
More from Google
Google Cloud
Google Domains
Chrome Enterprise
Google Business Solutions
Business Messages
Join User Studies
©
Google LLC | 1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy, Mountain View, CA 94043 |
Privacy
|
Terms