Google Workspace Updates: Use Gemini in the side panel of Workspace apps to generate images in seven additional languages
Products
For Admins
Help Center
Release Calendar
Subscribe
email
This official feed from the Google Workspace team provides essential information about new features and improvements for Google Workspace customers.
Comms & Meetings ▾
Gmail
Google Chat
Google Calendar
Google Tasks
Google Groups
Google Meet
Google Meet hardware
Google Voice
Content & Collaboration ▾
Google Drive
Google Docs
Google Sheets
Google Slides
Google Forms
Google Keep
Google Sites
Google Vids
Gemini ▾
Gemini
Gemini App
Gemini Notebook
Workspace Studio
Admin & Security ▾
Admin console
Security and Compliance
Directory Sync
Google Workspace Migrate
Google Vault
Identity
MDM
SSO
Education ▾
Google Workspace for Education
Google Classroom
More ▾
Google Workspace Marketplace
API
Google Apps Script
AppSheet
Mobile
iOS
Android
Beta
Additional Google services
Weekly Recap
Other
Google Workspace Add-ons
rss_feed
arrow_back
Back
January 29, 2025
Use Gemini in the side panel of Workspace apps to generate images in seven additional languages
Gemini
Google Workspace
Rapid Release
Scheduled Release
What’s changing
Following the recent announcement of being able to use Gemini in the side panel of Workspace apps in seven additional languages, we’re excited to announce that image generation is now supported in the following languages as well:
French
German
Italian
Japanese
Korean
Portuguese
Spanish
Additional details
Although Gemini is generally available in the side panel of Docs, Sheets, Drive, and Gmail in these languages, users with Gemini alpha features enabled may still see the "Alpha" badge as we continue rolling out more alpha features
Image generation of people is not supported at this time in these additional languages.
Gemini in the side panel of Slides is only available in English at this time.
Getting started
Admins: There is no admin control for this feature.
End users: You can access the side panel by clicking on “Ask Gemini” (spark button) in the top right corner of Docs, Sheets, Drive, and Gmail on the web. Visit the Help Center to learn more about collaborating with Gemini in the side panel of Docs, Sheets, Drive, and Gmail. Note that for accessing other Gemini for Google Workspace features that are supported in English only, you will need to set your Google Account language to English.
Rollout pace
Rapid Release and Scheduled Release domains: Gradual rollout (up to 15 days for feature visibility) starting on January 29, 2025
Availability
Image Generation in the side panel of Gmail only is available for Google Workspace:
Business Starter
Enterprise Starter
Image Generation in the side panel of Docs, Sheets, Drive, and Gmail is available for Google Workspace:
Business Standard and Plus
Enterprise Standard and Plus
Customers with the Gemini Education or Gemini Education Premium add-on
Google One AI Premium
Anyone who previously purchased these add-ons will also receive this feature:
Gemini Business*
Gemini Enterprise*
*As of January 15, 2025, we’re no longer offering the Gemini Business and Gemini Enterprise add-ons for sale. Please refer to this announcement for more details.
Resources
Supported languages for Gemini for Google Workspace
Google Help: Use the side panel to collaborate with Gemini
Useful Links
Join the official community for Google Workspace administrators
In the Google Cloud Community, discuss the latest features with Googlers and other Google Workspace admins like you. Learn tips and tricks that will make your work and life easier. Be the first to know what's happening with Google Workspace.
Learn about more Google Workspace launches
On the “What’s new in Google Workspace?” Help Center page, learn about new products and features launching in Google Workspace, including smaller changes that haven’t been announced on the Google Workspace Updates blog.
Learn about our customers
Discover how a diverse range of organizations, from small businesses and nimble startups to globally recognized Fortune 500 corporations, leverage the collaborative power of Google Workspace. Explore examples of how teams of are streamlining workflows and driving productivity by utilizing Google-Workspace.
Subscribe to Our Blog Updates
send
Follow Google Workspace
rss_feed
Learning & Support
Admin Help
Learning Center for Users
Community Forum
Google Help
Workspace Dashboard
What's New
Resources
Security
Customer Stories
Working Remotely
Find a Partner
Marketplace
FAQs
Integrations
Training & Certification
More from Google
Google Cloud
Google Domains
Chrome Enterprise
Google Business Solutions
Business Messages
Join User Studies
© Google LLC | 1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy, Mountain View, CA 94043 | Privacy | Terms